I can feel the heat closing in, feel them out there making their moves, se ng up
their devil doll stool pigeons, crooning over my spoon and dropper I throw away
at Washington Square Sta on, vault a turns le and two ﬂights down the iron
stairs, catch an uptown A train … Young, good looking, crew cut, Ivy League,
adver sing exec type fruit holds the door back for me. I am evidently his idea of a
character. You know the type comes on with bartenders and cab drivers, talking
about right hooks and the Dodgers, call the counterman in Nedick’s by his ﬁrst
name. A real asshole. And right on me this narco cs dick in a white trench coat
(imagine tailing somebody in a white trench coat – trying to pass as a fag I guess)
hit the pla orm. I can hear the way he would say it holding my ou it in his le
hand, right hand on his piece: ‘I think you dropped something, fella.’
But the subway is moving.
‘So long ﬂa oot!’ I yell, giving the fruit his B produc on. I look into the fruit’s
eyes, take in the white teeth, the Florida tan, the two hundred dollar sharkskin
suit, the bu on-down Brooks Brothers shirt and carrying The News as a prop.
‘Only thing I read is Little Abner.’
A square wants to come on hip.… Talks about ‘pod,’ and smoke it now and
then, and keeps some around to offer the fast Hollywood types.
‘Thanks, kid,’ I say, ‘I can see you’re one of our own.’ His face lights up like a
pinball machine, with stupid, pink effect.
‘Grassed on me he did,’ I said morosely. (Note: Grass is English thief slang for
inform.) I drew closer and laid my dirty junky ﬁngers on his sharkskin sleeve. ‘And
us blood brothers in the same dirty needle. I can tell you in conﬁdence he is due
for a hot shot.’ (Note: This is a cap of poison junk sold to addict for liquida on
purposes. O en given to informers. Usually the hot shot is strychnine since it
tastes and looks like junk.)
‘Ever see a hot shot hit, kid? I saw the Gimp catch one in Philly. We rigged his
room with a one-way whorehouse mirror and charged a sawski to watch it. He
never got the needle out of his arm. They don’t if the shot is right. That’s the way
they ﬁnd them, dropper full of clo ed blood hanging out of a blue arm. The look
in his eyes when it hit – Kid, it was tasty.…
‘Recollect when I am travelling with the Vigilante, best Shake Man in the
industry. Out in Chi … We is working the fags in Lincoln Park. So one night the
Vigilante turns up for work in cowboy boots and a black vest with a hunka n on
it and a lariat slung over his shoulder.
‘So I says: “What’s with you? You wig already?”
‘He just looks at me and says: “Fill your hand stranger” and hauls out an old
rusty six shooter and I take oﬀ across Lincoln Park, bullets cu ng all around me.
And he hang three fags before the fuzz nail him. I mean the Vigilante earned his
moniker.…
‘Ever no ce how many expressions carry over from queers to con men? Like
“raise,” letting someone know you are in the same line?
‘“Get her!”‘“Get the Paregoric Kid giving that mark the build up!”
‘“Eager Beaver wooing him much too fast.”
‘The Shoe Store Kid (he got that moniker shaking down fe shists in the shoe
stores) say: “Give it to a mark with K.Y. and he will come back moaning for
more.” And when the Kid spots a mark he begin to breathe heavy. His face swells
and his lips turn purple like an Eskimo in heat. Then slow, slow he comes on the
mark, feeling for him, palpating him with fingers of rotten ectoplasm.
‘The Rube has a sincere li le boy look, burns through him like blue neon. That one
stepped right oﬀ a Saturday Evening Post cover with a string of bullheads, and
preserved himself in junk. His marks never beef and the Bunko people are really
carrying a needle for the Rube. One day Li le Boy Blue starts to slip, and what
crawls out would make an ambulance a endant puke. The Rube ﬂips in the end,
running through empty automats and subway sta ons, screaming: “Come back,
kid!! Come back!!” and follows his boy right into the East River, down through
condoms and orange peels, mosaic of ﬂoa ng newspapers, down into the silent
black ooze with gangsters in concrete, and pistols pounded ﬂat to avoid the
probing finger of prurient ballistic experts.’
And the fruit is thinking: ‘What a character!! Wait ll I tell the boys in Clark’s
about this one.’ He’s a character collector, would stand s ll for Joe Gould’s
seagull act. So I put it on him for a sawski and make a meet to sell him some ‘pod’
as he calls it, thinking, ‘I’ll catnip the jerk.’ (Note: Catnip smells like marijuana
when it burns. Frequently passed on the incautious or uninstructed.)
‘Well,’ I said, tapping my arm, ‘duty calls. As one judge said to another: “Be
just and if you can’t be just, be arbitrary.”’
I cut into the automat and there is Bill Gains huddled in someone else’s
overcoat looking like a 1910 banker with paresis, and Old Bart, shabby and
inconspicuous, dunking pound cake with his dirty fingers, shiny over the dirt.
I had some uptown customers Bill took care of, and Bart knew a few old relics
from hop smoking mes, spectral janitors, grey as ashes, phantom porters
sweeping out dusty old halls with a slow old man’s hand, coughing and spi ng in
the junk-sick dawn, re red asthma c fences in theatrical hotels, Pantopon Rose
the old madam from Peoria, stoical Chinese waiters never show sickness. Bart
sought them out with his old junky walk, pa ent and cau ous and slow, dropped
into their bloodless hands a few hours of warmth.
I made the round with him once for kicks. You know how old people lose all
shame about ea ng, and it makes you puke to watch them? Old junkies are the
same about junk. They gibber and squeal at sight of it. The spit hangs oﬀ their
chin, and their stomach rumbles and all their guts grind in peristalsis while they
cook up, dissolving the body’s decent skin, you expect any moment a great blob
of protoplasm will ﬂop right out and surround the junk. Really disgust you to see
it.
‘Well, my boys will be like that one day,’ I thought philosophically. ‘Isn’t life
peculiar?’So back downtown by the Sheridan Square Sta on in case the dick is lurking in
a broom closet.
Like I say it couldn’t last. I knew they were out there powowing and making
their evil fuzz magic, pu ng dolls of me in Leavenworth. ‘No use s cking needles
in that one, Mike.’
I hear they got Chapin with a doll. This old eunuch dick just sat in the precinct
basement hanging a doll of him day and night, year in year out. And when Chapin
hanged in Connecticut, they find this old creep with his neck broken.
‘He fell downstairs,’ they say. You know the old cop bullshit.
Junk is surrounded by magic and taboos, curses and amulets. I could ﬁnd my
Mexico City connec on by radar. ‘Not this street, the next, right … now le . Now
right again,’ and there he is, toothless old woman face and cancelled eyes.
I know this one pusher walks around humming a tune and everybody he
passes takes it up. He is so grey and spectral and anonymous they don’t see him
and think it is their own mind humming the tune. So the customers come in on
Smiles, as I’m in the Mood for Love, or They Say We’re Too Young to Go Steady, or
whatever the song is for that day. Some me you can see maybe ﬁ y ra y-
looking junkies squealing sick, running along behind a boy with a harmonica, and
there is The Man on a cane seat throwing bread to the swans, a fat queen drag
walking his Afghan hound through the East Fi ies, and old wino pissing against an
El post, a radical Jewish student giving out leaﬂets in Washington Square, a tree
surgeon, an exterminator, an adver sing fruit in Nedick’s where he calls the
counterman by his ﬁrst name. The world network of junkies, tuned on a cord of
rancid jissom, tying up in furnished rooms, shivering in the junk-sick morning. (Old
Pete men suck the black smoke in the Chink laundry back room and Melancholy
Baby dies from an overdose of me or cold turkey withdrawal of breath.) In
Yemen, Paris, New Orleans, Mexico City and Istanbul – shivering under the air
hammers and the steam shovels, shrieked junky curses at one another neither of
us heard, and the Man leaned out of a passing steam roller and I coped in a
bucket of tar. (Note: Istanbul is being torn down and rebuilt, especially shabby
junk quarters. Istanbul has more heroin junkies than NYC.) The living and the
dead, in sickness or on the nod, hooked or kicked or hooked again, come in on
the junk beam and the Connec on is ea ng Chop Suey on Dolores Street, Mexico
D.F., dunking pound cake in the automat, chased up Exchange Place by a baying
pack of People. (Note: People is New Orleans slang for narcotic fuzz.)
The old Chinaman dips river water into a rusty n can, washes down a yen
pox hard and black as a cinder. (Note: Yen pox is the ash of smoked opium.)
Well, the fuzz has my spoon and dropper, and I know they are coming in on
my frequency led by this blind pigeon known as Willy the Disk. Willy has a round,
disk mouth lined with sensi ve, erec le black hairs. He is blind from shoo ng in
the eyeball, his nose and palate eaten away sniﬃng H, his body a mass of scar
ssue hard and dry as wood. He can only eat the shit now with that mouth,
some mes sways out on a long tube of ectoplasm, feeling for the silentfrequency of junk. He follows my trail all over the city into rooms I move out
already, and the fuzz walks in some newlyweds from Sioux Falls.
‘All right, Lee!! Come out from behind that strap-on! We know you,’ and pull
the man’s prick off straightaway.
Now Willy is ge ng hot and you can hear him always out there in darkness
(he only func ons at night) whimpering, and feel the terrible urgency of that blind,
seeking mouth. When they move in for the bust, Willy goes all out of control, and
his mouth eats a hole right through the door. If the cops weren’t there to restrain
him with a stock probe, he would suck the juice right out of every junky he ran
down.
I knew, and everybody else knew they had the Disk on me. And if my kid
customers ever hit the stand: ‘He force me to commit all kinda awful sex acts in
return for junk’ I could kiss the street good-bye.
So we stock up on H, buy a second-hand Studebaker, and start West.
The Vigilante copped out as a schizo possession case:
‘I was standing outside myself trying to stop those hangings with ghost
ﬁngers.… I am a ghost wan ng what every ghost wants – a body – a er the Long
Time moving through odorless alleys of space where no life is only the colorless
no smell of death.… Nobody can breathe and smell it through pink convolu ons
of gristle laced with crystal snot, time shit and black blood filters of flesh.’
He stood there in elongated court room shadows, his face torn like a broken
ﬁlm by lusts and hungers of larval organs s rring in the tenta ve ectoplasmic
ﬂesh of junk kick (ten days on ice at me of the First Hearing) ﬂesh that fades at
the first silent touch of junk.
I saw it happen. Ten pounds lost in ten minutes standing with the syringe in
one hand holding his pants up with the other, his abdicated ﬂesh burning in a cold
yellow halo, there in the New York hotel room … night table li er of candy boxes,
cigare e bu s cascading out of three ashtrays, mosaic of sleepless nights and
sudden food needs of the kicking addict nursing his baby flesh.…
The Vigilante is prosecuted in Federal Court under a lynch bill and winds up in
a Federal Nut House specially designed for the containment of ghosts: precise,
prosaic impact of objects … washstand … door … toilet … bars … there they are …
this is it … all lines cut … nothing beyond … Dead End … And the Dead End in every
face.…
The physical changes were slow at ﬁrst, then jumped forward in black klunks,
falling through his slack ssue, washing away the human lines.… In his place of
total darkness mouth and eyes are one organ that leaps forward to snap with
transparent teeth … but no organ is constant as regards either func on or
posi on … sex organs sprout anywhere … rectums open, defecate and close … the
entire organism changes color and consistency in split-second adjustments.…
The Rube is a social liability with his a acks as he calls them. The Mark Inside was
coming up on him and that’s a rumble nobody can cool; outside Philly he jumpsout to con a prowl car and the fuzz takes one look at his face and bust all of us.
Seventy-two hours and ﬁve sick junkies in the cell with us. Now not wishing to
break out my stash in front of these hungry cookies, it takes maneuvering and
laying of gold on the turnkey before we are in a separate cell.
Provident junkies, known as squirrels, keep stashes against a bust. Every me I
take a shot I let a few drops fall into my vest pocket, the lining is s ﬀ with stuﬀ. I
had a plas c dropper in my shoe and a safety-pin stuck in my belt. You know how
this pin and dropper rou ne is put down: ‘She seized a safety-pin caked with
blood and rust, gouged a great hole in her leg which seemed to hang open like an
obscene, festering mouth wai ng for unspeakable congress with the dropper
which she now plunged out of sight into the gaping wound. But her hideous
galvanized need (hunger of insects in dry places) has broken the dropper oﬀ deep
in the ﬂesh of her ravaged thigh (looking rather like a poster on soil erosion). But
what does she care? She does not even bother to remove the splintered glass,
looking down at her bloody haunch with the cold blank eyes of a meat trader.
What does she care for the atom bomb, the bed bugs, the cancer rent, Friendly
Finance wai ng to repossess her delinquent ﬂesh.… Sweet dreams, Pantopon
Rose.’
The real scene you pinch up some leg ﬂesh and make a quick stab hole with a
pin. Then ﬁt the dropper over, not in the hole and feed the solu on slow and
careful so it doesn’t squirt out the sides.… When I grabbed the Rube’s thigh the
ﬂesh came up like wax and stayed there, and a slow drop of pus oozed out the
hole. And I never touched a living body cold as the Rube there in Philly.…
I decided to lop him oﬀ if it meant a smother party. (This is a rural English
custom designed to eliminate aged and bedfast dependants. A family so aﬄicted
throws a ‘smother party’ where the guests pile ma resses on the old liability,
climb up on top of the mattresses and lush themselves out.) The Rube is a drag on
the industry and should be led out into the skid rows of the world. (This is an
African prac ce. Oﬃcial known as the ‘Leader Out’ has the func on of taking old
characters out into the jungle and leaving them there.)
The Rube’s a acks become an habitual condi on. Cops, doormen, dogs,
secretaries snarl at his approach. The blond God has fallen to untouchable
vileness. Con men don’t change, they break, shatter – explosions of matter in cold
interstellar space, dri away in cosmic dust, leave the empty body behind.
Hustlers of the world, there is one Mark you cannot beat: The Mark Inside.…
I le the Rube standing on a corner, red brick slums to the sky, under a steady
rain of soot. ‘Going to hit this croaker I know. Right back with that good pure
drugstore M.… No, you wait here – don’t want him to rumble you.’ No ma er
how long, Rube, wait for me right on that corner. Goodbye, Rube, goodbye kid.…
Where do they go when they walk out and leave the body behind?
Chicago: invisible hierarchy of decor cated wops, smell of atrophied
gangsters, earthbound ghost hits you at North and Halstead, Cicero, Lincoln Park,
panhandler of dreams, past invading the present, rancid magic of slot machinesand roadhouses.
Into the Interior: a vast subdivision, antennae of television to the meaningless
sky. In lifeproof houses they hover over the young, sop up a li le of what they
shut out. Only the young bring anything in, and they are not young very long.
(Through the bars of East St Louis lies the dead fron er, riverboat days.) Illinois
and Missouri, miasma of mound-building peoples, groveling worship of the Food
Source, cruel and ugly fes vals, dead-end horror of the Cen pede God reaches
from Moundville to the lunar deserts of coastal Peru.
America is not a young land: it is old and dirty and evil before the se lers,
before the Indians. The evil is there waiting.
And always cops: smooth college-trained state cops, prac sed, apologe c
pa er, electronic eyes weigh your car and luggage, clothes and face; snarling big
city dicks, so -spoken country sheriﬀs with something black and menacing in old
eyes color of a faded grey flannel shirt.…
And always car trouble: in St. Louis traded the 1942 Studebaker in (it has a
built-in engineering flaw like the Rube) on an old Packard limousine heated up and
barely made Kansas City, and bought a Ford turned out to be an oil burner,
packed it in on a Jeep we push too hard (they are no good for highway driving) –
and burn something out inside, ra ling around, went back to the old Ford V-8.
Can’t beat that engine for getting there, oil burner or no.
And the U.S. drag closes around us like no other drag in the world, worse than
the Andes, high mountain towns, cold wind down from postcard mountains, thin
air like death in the throat, river towns of Ecuador, malaria grey as junk under
black Stetson, muzzle loading shotguns, vultures pecking through the mud streets
– and what hits you when you get oﬀ the Malmo Ferry in (no juice tax on the
ferry) Sweden knocks all that cheap, tax free juice right out of you and brings you
all the way down: averted eyes and the cemetery in the middle of town (every
town in Sweden seems to be built around a cemetery), and nothing to do in the
a ernoon, not a bar nor a movie and I blasted my last s ck of Tangier tea and I
said, ‘K.E. let’s get right back on that ferry.’
But there is no drag like U.S. drag. You can’t see it, you don’t know where it
comes from. Take one of those cocktail lounges at the end of a subdivision street
– every block of houses has its own bar and drugstore and market and
liquorstore. You walk in and it hits you. But where does it come from?
Not the bartender, not the customers, nor the cream-colored plas c rounding
the bar stools, nor the dim neon. Not even the TV.
And our habits build up with the drag, like cocaine will build you up staying
ahead of the C bring-down. And the junk was running low. So there we are in this
no-horse town strictly from cough syrup. And vomited up the syrup and drove on
and on, cold spring wind whistling through that old heap around our shivering sick
swea ng bodies and the cold you always come down with when the junk runs out
of you.… On through the peeled landscape, dead armadillos in the road and
vultures over the swamp and cypress stumps. Motels with beaverboard walls, gasheater, thin pink blankets.
I nerant short con and carny hyp men have burned down the croakers of
Texas.…
And no one in his right mind would hit a Louisiana croaker. State Junk Law.
Came at last to Houston where I know a druggist. I haven’t been there in ﬁve
years but he looks up and makes me with one quick look and just nods and says:
‘Wait over at the counter.…’
So I sit down and drink a cup of coﬀee and a er a while he comes and sits
beside me and says, ‘What do you want?’
‘A quart of PG and a hundred nembies.’
He nods, ‘Come back in half an hour.’
So when I come back he hands me a package and says, ‘That’s ﬁ een dollars.
… Be careful.’
Shoo ng PG is a terrible hassle, you have to burn out the alcohol ﬁrst, then
freeze out the camphor and draw this brown liquid oﬀ with a dropper – have to
shoot it in the vein or you get an abscess, and usually end up with an abscess no
ma er where you shoot it. Best deal is to drink it with goof balls.… So we pour it
in a Pernod bo le and start for New Orleans past iridescent lakes and orange gas
ﬂares, and swamps and garbage heaps, alligators crawling around on broken
bottles and n cans, neon arabesques of motels, marooned pimps scream
obscenities at passing cars from islands of rubbish.…
New Orleans is a dead museum. We walk around Exchange Place breathing
PG and find The Man right away. It’s a small place and the fuzz always knows who
is pushing so he ﬁgures what the hell does it ma er and sells to anybody. We
stock up on H and backtrack for Mexico.
Back through Lake Charles and the dead slot-machine country, south end of
Texas, sheriﬀs look us over and check the car papers. Something
falls oﬀ you when you cross the border into Mexico, and suddenly the landscape
hits you straight with nothing between you and it, desert and mountains and
vultures; li le wheeling specks and others so close you can hear wings cut the air
(a dry husking sound), and when they spot something they pour out of the blue
sky, that sha ering bloody blue sky of Mexico, down in a black funnel.… Drove all
night, came at dawn to a warm misty place, barking dogs and the sound of
running water.
‘Thomas and Charlie,’ I said.
‘What?’
‘That’s the name of this town. Sea level. We climb straight up from here ten
thousand feet.’ I took a ﬁx and went to sleep in the back seat. She was a good
driver. You can tell as soon as someone touches the wheel.
Mexico City where Lupita sits like an Aztec Earth Goddess doling out her li le
papers of lousy shit.
‘Selling is more of a habit than using,’ Lupita says. Non-using pushers have a
contact habit, and that’s one you can’t kick. Agents get it too. Take Bradley theBuyer. Best narco cs agent in the industry. Anyone would make him for junk.
(Note: Make in the sense of dig or size up.) I mean he can walk up to a pusher and
score direct. He is so anonymous, grey and spectral the pusher don’t remember
him afterwards. So he twists one after the other.…
Well the Buyer comes to look more and more like a junky. He can’t drink. He
can’t get it up. His teeth fall out. (Like pregnant women lose their teeth feeding
the stranger, junkies lose their yellow fangs feeding the monkey.) He is all the
me sucking on a candy bar. Babe Ruths he digs special. ‘It really disgust you to
see the Buyer sucking on them candy bars so nasty,’ a cop says.
The Buyer takes on an ominous grey-green color. Fact is his body is making its
own junk or equivalent. The Buyer has a steady connec on. A Man Within you
might say. Or so he thinks. ‘I’ll just set in my room,’ he says. ‘Fuck ’em all. Squares
on both sides. I am the only complete man in the industry.’
But a yen comes on him like a great black wind through the bones. So the
Buyer hunts up a young junky and gives him a paper to make it.
‘Oh all right,’ the boy says. ‘So what you want to make?’
‘I just want to rub up against you and get fixed.’
‘Ugh.… Well all right.… But why cancha just get physical like a human?’
Later the boy is si ng in a Waldorf with two colleagues dunking pound cake.
‘Most distasteful thing I ever stand s ll for,’ he says. ‘Some way he make himself
all so like a blob of jelly and surround me so nasty. Then he gets wet all over like
with green slime. So I guess he come to some kinda awful climax.… I come near
wigging with that green stuﬀ all over me, and he s nk like a old ro en
canteloupe.’
‘Well it’s still an easy score.’
The boy sighed resignedly; ‘Yes, I guess you can get used to anything. I’ve got
a meet with him again tomorrow.’
The Buyer’s habit keeps ge ng heavier. He needs a recharge every half hour.
Some mes he cruises the precincts and bribes the turnkey to let him in with a cell
of junkies. It gets to where no amount of contact will ﬁx him. At this point he
receives a summons from the District Supervisor:
‘Bradley, your conduct has given rise to rumours – and I hope for your sake
they are no more than that – so unspeakably distasteful that … I mean Caesar’s
wife … hrump … that is, the Department must be above suspicion … certainly
above such suspicions as you have seemingly aroused. You are lowering the
en re tone of the industry. We are prepared to accept your immediate
resignation.’
The Buyer throws himself on the ground and crawls over to the D.S. ‘No, Boss
Man, no … The Department is my very lifeline.’
He kisses the D.S.’s hand thrus ng his ﬁngers into his mouth (the D.S. must
feel his toothless gums) complaining he has lost his teeth ‘inna thervith.’ ‘Please
Boss Man, I’ll wipe your ass, I’ll wash out your dirty condoms, I’ll polish your
shoes with the oil on my nose.…’‘Really, this is most distasteful! Have you no pride? I must tell you I feel a
dis nct revulsion. I mean there is something, well, ro en about you, and you
smell like a compost heap.’ He put a scented handkerchief in front of his face. ‘I
must ask you to leave this office at once.’
‘I’ll do anything, Boss, anything.’ His ravaged green face splits in a horrible
smile. ‘I’m still young, Boss, and I’m pretty strong when I get my blood up.’
The D.S. retches into his handkerchief and points to the door with a limp
hand. The Buyer stands up looking at the D.S. dreamily. His body begins to dip like
a dowser’s wand. He flows forward.…
‘No! No!’ screams the D.S.
‘Schlup … schlup schlup.’ An hour later they ﬁnd the Buyer on the nod in the
D.S.’s chair. The D.S. has disappeared without a trace.
The Judge: ‘Everything indicates that you have, in some unspeakable manner
uh … assimilated the District Supervisor. Unfortunately there is no proof. I would
recommend that you be conﬁned or more accurately contained in some
ins tu on, but I know of no place suitable for a man of your caliber. I must
reluctantly order your release.’
‘That one should stand in an aquarium,’ says the arresting officer.
The Buyer spreads terror throughout the industry. Junkies and agents
disappear. Like a vampire bat he gives oﬀ a narco c eﬄuvium, a dank green mist
that anesthe zes his vic ms and renders them helpless in his enveloping
presence. And once he has scored he holes up for several days like a gorged boa
constrictor. Finally he is caught in the act of diges ng the Narco cs
Commissioner and destroyed with a ﬂame thrower – the court of inquiry ruling
that such means were jus ﬁed in that the Buyer had lost his human ci zenship
and was, in consequence, a creature without species and a menace to the
narcotics industry on all levels.
In Mexico the gimmick is to ﬁnd a local junky with a government script
whereby they are allowed a certain quan ty every month. Our Man was Old Ike
who had spent most of his life in the States.
‘I was travelling with Irene Kelly and her was a spor ng woman. In Bu e,
state of Montany, she gets the coke horrors and run through the hotel screaming
Chinese coppers chase her with meat cleavers. I knew this cop in Chicago sniﬀ
coke used to come in form of crystals, blue crystals. So he go nuts and start
screaming the Federals is a er him and run down this alley and s ck his head in
the garbage can. And I said, “What you think you are doing?” and he say, “Get
away or I shoot you. I got myself hid good.”’
We are ge ng some C or RX at this me. Shoot it in the mainline, son. You
can smell it going in, clean and cold in your nose and throat then a rush of pure
pleasure right through the brain ligh ng up those C connec ons. Your head
sha ers in white explosions. Ten minutes later you want another shot … you will
walk across town for another shot. But if you can’t score for C you eat, sleep and
forget about it.This is a yen of the brain alone, a need without feeling and without body,
earthbound ghost need, rancid ectoplasm swept out by an old junky coughing and
spitting in the sick morning.
One morning you wake up and take a speed ball, and feel bugs under your
skin. 1890 cops with black mustaches block the doors and lean in through the
windows snarling their lips back from blue and bold embossed badges. Junkies
march through the room singing the Moslem Funeral Song, bear the body of Bill
Gains, s gmata of his needle wounds glow with a so blue ﬂame. Purposeful
schizophrenic detectives sniff at your chamber pot.
It’s the coke horrors.… Sit back and play it cool and shoot in plenty of that
GIM.
Day of the Dead: I got the chucks and ate my li le Willy’s sugar skull. He cried
and I had to go out for another. Walked past the cocktail lounge where they
blasted the Jai Lai bookie.
In Cuernavaca or was it Taxco? Jane meets a pimp trombone player and
disappears in a cloud of tea smoke. The pimp is one of these vibration and dietary
ar sts – which is a means he degrades the female sex by forcing his chicks to
swallow all this shit. He was con nually enlarging his theories … he would quiz a
chick and threaten to walk out if she hadn’t memorized every nuance of his latest
assault on logic and the human image.
‘Now, baby. I got it here to give. But if you won’t receive it there’s just nothing
I can do.’
He was a ritual tea smoker and very puritanical about junk the way some
teaheads are. He claimed tea put him in touch with supra blue gravitational fields.
He had ideas on every subject: what kind of underwear was healthy, when to
drink water, and how to wipe your ass. He had a shiny red face and great
spreading smooth nose, li le red eyes that lit up when he looked at a chick and
went out when he looked at anything else. His shoulders were very broad and
suggested deformity. He acted as if other men did not exist, conveying his
restaurant and store orders to male personnel through a female intermediary.
And no Man ever invaded his blighted, secret place.
So he is pu ng down junk and coming on with tea. I take three drags, Jane
looked at him and her ﬂesh crystallized. I leaped up screaming, ‘I got the fear!’
and ran out of the house. Drank a beer in a li le restaurant – mosaic bar and
soccer scores and bullfight posters – and waited for the bus to town.
A year later in Tangier I heard she was dead.Benway
So I am assigned to engage the services of Doctor Benway for Islam Inc.
Dr. Benway had been called in as advisor to the Freeland Republic, a place
given over to free love and con nual bathing. The ci zens are well adjusted, co-
opera ve, honest, tolerant and above all clean. But the invoking of Benway
indicates all is not well behind that hygienic façade: Benway is a manipulator and
co-ordinator of symbol systems, an expert on all phases of interroga on,
brainwashing and control. I have not seen Benway since his precipitate departure
from Annexia, where his assignment had been T.D. – Total Demoraliza on.
Benway’s ﬁrst act was to abolish concentra on camps, mass arrest and, except
under certain limited and special circumstances, the use of torture.
‘I deplore brutality,’ he said. ‘It’s not eﬃcient. On the other hand, prolonged
mistreatment, short of physical violence, gives rise, when skillfully applied, to
anxiety and a feeling of special guilt. A few rules or rather guiding principles are to
be borne in mind. The subject must not realize that the mistreatment is a
deliberate a ack of an an human enemy on his personal iden ty. He must be
made to feel that he deserves any treatment he receives because there is
something (never speciﬁed) horribly wrong with him. The naked need of the
control addicts must be decently covered by an arbitrary and intricate
bureaucracy so that the subject cannot contact his enemy direct.’
Every ci zen of Annexia was required to apply for and carry on his person at
all mes a whole por olio of documents. Ci zens were subject to be stopped in
the street at any me; and the Examiner, who might be in plain clothes, in various
uniforms, o en in a bathing suit or pyjamas, some mes stark naked except for a
badge pinned to his le nipple, a er checking each paper, would stamp it. On
subsequent inspec on the ci zen was required to show the properly entered
stamps of the last inspec on. The Examiner, when he stopped a large group,
would only examine and stamp the cards of a few. The others were then subject
to arrest because their cards were not properly stamped. Arrest meant
‘provisional deten on’; that is, the prisoner would be released if and when his
Aﬃdavit of Explana on, properly signed and stamped, was approved by the
Assistant Arbiter of Explana ons. Since this oﬃcial hardly ever came to his oﬃce,
and the Aﬃdavit of Explana on had to be presented in person, the explainers
spent weeks and months wai ng around in unheated oﬃces with no chairs and
no toilet facilities.
Documents issued in vanishing ink faded into old pawn ckets. New
documents were constantly required. The ci zens rushed from one bureau to
another in a frenzied attempt to meet impossible deadlines.
All benches were removed from the city, all fountains turned oﬀ, all ﬂowers
and trees destroyed. Huge electric buzzers on the top of every apartment house
(everyone lived in apartments) rang the quarter hour. O en the vibra ons would
throw people out of bed. Searchlights played over the town all night (no one waspermitted to use shades, curtains, shutters or blinds).
No one ever looked at anyone else because of the strict law against
importuning, with or without verbal approach, anyone for any purpose, sexual or
otherwise. All cafés and bars were closed. Liquor could only be obtained with a
special permit, and the liquor so obtained could not be sold or given or in any way
transferred to anyone else, and the presence of anyone else in the room was
considered prima facie evidence of conspiracy to transfer liquor.
No one was permi ed to bolt his door, and the police had pass keys to every
room in the city. Accompanied by a mentalist they rush into someone’s quarters
and start ‘looking for it.’
The mentalist guides them to whatever the man wishes to hide: a tube of
vaseline, an enema, a handkerchief with come on it, a weapon, unlicensed
alcohol. And they always submi ed the suspect to the most humilia ng search of
his naked person on which they make sneering and derogatory comments. Many
a latent homosexual was carried out in a straitjacket when they planted vaseline
in his ass. Or they pounce on any object. A pen wiper or a shoe tree.
‘And what is this supposed to be for?’
‘It’s a pen wiper.’
‘A pen wiper, he says.’
‘I’ve heard everything now.’
‘I guess this is all we need. Come on, you.’
After a few months of this the citizens cowered in corners like neurotic cats.
Of course the Annexia police processed suspected agents, saboteurs and
poli cal deviants on an assembly line basis. As regards the interroga on of
suspects, Benway has this to say:
‘While in general I avoid the use of torture – torture locates the opponent and
mobilizes resistance – the threat of torture is useful to induce in the subject the
appropriate feeling of helplessness and gra tude to the interrogator for
withholding it. And torture can be employed to advantage as a penalty when the
subject is far enough along with the treatment to accept punishment as deserved.
To this end I devised several forms of disciplinary procedure. One was known as
The Switchboard. Electric drills that can be turned on at any me are clamped
against the subject’s teeth; and he is instructed to operate an arbitrary
switchboard, to put certain connec ons in certain sockets in response to bells
and lights. Every me he makes a mistake the drills are turned on for twenty
seconds. The signals are gradually speeded up beyond his reac on me. Half an
hour on the switchboard and the subject breaks down like an overloaded thinking
machine.
‘The study of thinking machines teaches us more about the brain than we can
learn by introspec ve methods. Western man is externalizing himself in the form
of gadgets. Ever pop coke in the mainline? It hits you right in the brain, ac va ng
connec ons of pure pleasure. The pleasure of morphine is in the viscera. You
listen down into yourself a er a shot. But C is electricity through the brain, andthe C yen is of the brain alone, a need without body and without feeling. The C-
charged brain is a berserk pinball machine, ﬂashing blue and pink lights in electric
orgasm. C pleasure could be felt by a thinking machine, the ﬁrst s rrings of
hideous insect life. The craving for C lasts only a few hours, as long as the C
channels are s mulated. Of course the eﬀect of C could be produced by an
electric current activating the C channels.…
‘So a er a bit the channels wear out like veins, and the addict has to ﬁnd new
ones. A vein will come back in me, and by adroit vein rota on a junky can piece
out the odds if he don’t become an oil burner. But brain cells don’t come back
once they’re gone, and when the addict runs out of brain cells he is in a terrible
fucking position.
‘Squa ng on old bones and excrement and rusty iron, in a white blaze of
heat, a panorama of naked idiots stretches to the horizon. Complete silence –
their speech centers are destroyed – except for the crackle of sparks and the
popping of singed ﬂesh as they apply electrodes up and down the spine. White
smoke of burning ﬂesh hangs in the mo onless air. A group of children have ed
an idiot to a post with barbed wire and built a ﬁre between his legs and stand
watching with bes al curiosity as the ﬂames lick his thighs. His ﬂesh jerks in the
fire with insect agony.
‘I digress as usual. Pending more precise knowledge of brain electronics, drugs
remain an essen al tool of the interrogator in his assault on the subject’s
personal iden ty. The barbiturates are, of course, virtually useless. That is,
anyone who can be broken down by such means would succumb to the puerile
methods used in an American precinct. Scopolamine is o en eﬀec ve in
dissolving resistance, but it impairs the memory: an agent might be prepared to
reveal his secrets but quite unable to remember them, or cover story and secret
life info might be inextricably garbled. Mescaline, harmaline, LSD6, bufotenine,
muscarine successful in many cases. Bulbocapnine induces a state approxima ng
schizophrenic catatonia … instances of automa c obedience have been
observed. Bulbocapnine is a backbrain depressant probably pu ng out of ac on
the centers of mo on in the hypothalamus. Other drugs that have produced
experimental schizophrenia – mescaline, harmaline, LSD6 – are backbrain
s mulants. In schizophrenia the backbrain is alternately s mulated and
depressed. Catatonia is o en followed by a period of excitement and motor
ac vity during which the nut rushes through the wards giving everyone a bad
me. Deteriorated schizos some mes refuse to move at all and spend their lives
in bed. A disturbance of the regulatory func on of the hypothalamus is indicated
as the “cause” (causal thinking never yields accurate descrip on of metabolic
process – limita ons of exis ng language) of schizophrenia. Alternate doses of
LSD6 and bulbocapnine – the bulbocapnine po en ated with curare – give the
highest yield of automatic obedience.
‘There are other procedures. The subject can be reduced to deep depression
by administering large doses of benzedrine for several days. Psychosis can beinduced by con nual large doses of cocaine or demerol or by the abrupt
withdrawal of barbiturates a er prolonged administra on. He can be addicted by
dihydro-oxy-heroin and subjected to withdrawal (this compound should be ﬁve
times as addicting as heroin, and the withdrawal proportionately severe).
‘There are various “psychological methods,” compulsory psychoanalysis, for
example. The subject is requested to free-associate for one hour every day (in
cases where me is not of the essence). “Now, now. Let’s not be nega ve, boy.
Poppa call nasty man. Take baby walkabout switchboard.”
‘The case of a female agent who forgot her real iden ty and merged with her
cover story – she is s ll a fricteuse in Annexia – put me onto another gimmick. An
agent is trained to deny his agent iden ty by asser ng his cover story. So why not
use psychic jiu-jitsu and go along with him? Suggest that his cover story is his
identity and that he has no other. His agent identity becomes unconscious, that is,
out of his control; and you can dig it with drugs and hypnosis. You can make a
square heterosex ci zen queer with this angle … that is, reinforce and second his
rejec on of normally latent homosexual trends – at the same me depriving him
of cunt and subjec ng him to homosex s mula on. Then drugs, hypnosis, and –’
Benway flipped a limp wrist.
‘Many subjects are vulnerable to sexual humilia on. Nakedness, s mula on
with aphrodisiacs, constant supervision to embarrass subject and prevent relief of
masturbation (erections during sleep automatically turn on an enormous vibrating
electric buzzer that throws the subject out of bed into cold water, thus reducing
the incidence of wet dreams to a minimum). Kicks to hypno ze a priest and tell
him he is about to consummate a hyposta c union with the Lamb – then steer a
randy old sheep up his ass. After that the Interrogator can gain complete hypnotic
control – the subject will come at his whistle, shit on the ﬂoor if he but say Open
Sesame. Needless to say, the sex humilia on angle is contraindicated for overt
homosexuals. (I mean let’s keep our eye on the ball here and remember the old
party line … never know who’s listening in.) I recall this one kid, I condi on to shit
at sight of me. Then I wash his ass and screw him. It was real tasty. And he was a
lovely fellah too. And some mes a subject will burst into boyish tears because he
can’t keep from ejaculate when you screw him. Well, as you can plainly see, the
possibili es are endless like meandering paths in a great big beau ful garden. I
was just scratching that lovely surface when I am urged by Party Poops … Well,
“son cosas de la vida.”’
I reach Freeland, which is clean and dull my God. Benway is direc ng the R.C.,
Recondi oning Center. I drop around, and, ‘What happened to so and so?’ sets in
like: ‘Sidi Idriss “The Nark” Smithers crooned to the Senders for a longevity
serum. No fool like an old queen.’ ‘Lester Stroganoﬀ Smuunn – “El Hassein” –
turned himself into a Latah trying to perfect A.O.P., Automa c Obedience
Processing. A martyr to the industry …’ (Latah is a condi on occurring in
Southeast Asia. Otherwise sane, Latahs compulsively imitate every mo on once
their a en on is a racted by snapping the ﬁngers or calling sharply. A form ofcompulsive involuntary hypnosis. They some mes injure themselves trying to
imitate the motions of several people at once.)
‘Stop me if you’ve heard this atomic secret.…’
Benway’s face retains its form in the ﬂash bulb of urgency, subject at any
moment to unspeakable cleavage or metamorphoses. It ﬂickers like a picture
moving in and out of focus.
‘Come on,’ says Benway, ‘and I’ll show you around the R.C.’
We are walking down a long white hall. Benway’s voice dri s into my
consciousness from no par cular place … a disembodied voice that is some mes
loud and clear, sometimes barely audible like music down a windy street.
‘Isolated groups like na ves of the Bismarck Archipelago. No overt
homosexuality among them. God damned matriarchy. All matriarchies an -
homosexual, conformist and prosaic. Find yourself in a matriarchy walk don’t run
to the nearest fron er. If you run, some frustrate latent queer cop will likely
shoot you. So somebody wants to establish a beach head of homogeneity in a
shambles of poten als like West Europe and U.S.A.? Another fucking matriarchy,
Margaret Mead notwithstanding … Spot of bother there. Scalpel ﬁght with a
colleague in the opera ng room. And my baboon assistant leaped on the pa ent
and tore him to pieces. Baboons always a ack the weakest party in an
alterca on. Quite right too. We must never forget our glorious simian heritage.
Doc Browbeck was party inna second part. A re red abor onist and junk pusher
(he was a veterinarian actually) recalled to service during the manpower
shortage. Well, Doc had been in the hospital kitchen all morning goosing the
nurses and tanking up on coal gas and Klim – and just before the opera on he
sneaked a double shot of nutmeg to nerve himself up.’
(In England and especially in Edinburgh the ci zens bubble coal gas through
Klim – a horrible form of powdered milk tas ng like rancid chalk – and pick up on
the results. They hock everything to pay the gas bill, and when the man comes
around to shut it oﬀ for the non-payment, you can hear their screams for miles.
When a ci zen is sick from needing it he says, ‘I got the klinks’ or ‘That old stove
climbing up my back.’
Nutmeg. I quote from the author’s ar cle on narco c drugs in the British
Journal of Addic on (see Appendix): ‘Convicts and sailors some mes have
recourse to nutmeg. About a tablespoon is swallowed in water. Result vaguely
similar to marijuana with side eﬀects of headache and nausea. There are a
number of narco cs of the nutmeg family in use among the Indians of South
America. They are usually administered by sniﬃng a dried powder of the plant.
The medicine men take these noxious substances and go into convulsive states.
Their twitchings and mutterings are thought to have prophetic significance.’)
‘I had a Yage hangover, me, and in no condi on to take any of Browbeck’s
shit. First thing he comes on with I should start the incision from the back instead
of the front, mu ering some garbled nonsense about being sure to cut out the
gall bladder it would fuck up the meat. Thought he was on the farm cleaning achicken. I told him to go put his head back in the oven, whereupon he had the
eﬀrontery to push my hand severing the pa ent’s femoral artery. Blood spurted
up and blinded the anesthe st, who ran out through the halls screaming.
Browbeck tried to knee me in the groin, and I managed to hamstring him with my
scalpel. He crawled about the ﬂoor stabbing at my feet and legs. Violet, that’s my
baboon assistant – only woman I ever cared a damn about – really wigged. I
climbed up on the table and poise myself to jump on Browbeck with both feet
and stomp him when the cops rushed in.
‘Well, this rumble in the opera ng room, “this unspeakable occurrence” as
the Super called it, you might say was the blow oﬀ. The wolf pack was closing for
the kill. A cruciﬁxion, that’s the only word for it. Of course I’d made a few
“dummheits” here and there. Who hasn’t? There was the me me and the
anesthe st drank up all the ether and the pa ent came up on us, and I was
accused of cu ng the cocaine with Saniﬂush. Violet did it actually. Had to
protect her of course.…
‘So the wind-up is we are drummed out of the industry. Not that Violet was a
bona ﬁde croaker, neither was Browbeck for that ma er, and even my own
cer ﬁcate was called in ques on. But Violet knew more medicine than the Mayo
Clinic. She had an extraordinary intuition and a high sense of duty.
‘So there I was ﬂat on my ass with no cer ﬁcate. Should I turn to another
trade? No. Doctoring was in my blood. I managed to keep up my habits
performing cut-rate abor ons in subway toilets. I even descended to hustling
pregnant women in the public streets. It was posi vely unethical. Then I met a
great guy. Placenta Juan the A erbirth Tycoon. Made his in slunks during the war.
(Slunks are underage calves trailing a erbirths and bacteria, generally in an
unsanitary and unﬁt condi on. A calf may not be sold as food un l it reaches a
minimum age of six weeks. Prior to that me it is classiﬁed as a slunk. Slunk
traﬃcking is subject to a heavy penalty.) Well, Juanito controlled a ﬂeet of cargo
boats he register under the Abyssinian ﬂag to avoid bothersome restric ons. He
gives me a job as ship’s doctor on the S.S. Filariasis, as ﬁlthy a cra as ever sailed
the seas. Opera ng with one hand, bea ng the rats oﬀa my pa ent with the
other and bedbugs and scorpions rain down from the ceiling.
‘So somebody wants homogeneity at this juncture. Can do but it costs. Bored
with the whole project, me.… Here we are.… Drag Alley.’
Benway traces a pa ern in the air with his hand and a door swings open. We
step through and the door closes. A long ward gleaming with stainless steel, white
le ﬂoors, glass brick walls. Beds along one wall. No one smokes, no one reads,
no one talks.
‘Come and take a close look,’ says Benway. ‘You won’t embarrass anybody.’
I walk over and stand in front of a man who is si ng on his bed. I look at the
man’s eyes. Nobody, nothing looks back.
‘IND’s,’ says Benway, ‘Irreversible Neural Damage. Overliberated, you might
say … a drag on the industry.’I pass a hand in front of the man’s eyes.
‘Yes,’ says Benway, ‘they s ll have reﬂexes. Watch this.’ Benway takes a
chocolate bar from his pocket, removes the wrapper and holds it in front of the
man’s nose. The man sniﬀs. His jaws begin to work. He makes snatching mo ons
with his hands. Saliva drips from his mouth and hangs oﬀ his chin in long
streamers. His stomach rumbles. His whole body writhes in peristalsis. Benway
steps back and holds up the chocolate. The man drops to his knees, throws back
his head and barks. Benway tosses the chocolate. The man snaps at it, misses,
scrambles around on the floor making slobbering noises. He crawls under the bed,
finds the chocolate and crams it into his mouth with both hands.
‘Jesus! These ID’s got no class to them.’
Benway calls over the a endant who is si ng at one end of the ward reading
a book of J. M. Barrie’s plays.
‘Get these fucking ID’s outa here. It’s a bring down already. Bad for the tourist
business.’
‘What should I do with them?’
‘How in the fuck should I know? I’m a scien st. A pure scien st. Just get them
outa here. I don’t hafta look at them is all. They constitute an albatross.’
‘But what? Where?’
‘Proper channels. Buzz the District Coordinator or whatever he calls himself …
new title every week. Doubt if he exists.’
Doctor Benway pauses at the door and looks back at the IND’s. ‘Our failure,’
he says. ‘Well, it’s all in the day’s work.’
‘Do they ever come back?’
‘They don’t come back, won’t come back, once they’re gone,’ Benway sings
softly. ‘Now this ward has some innarest.’
The patients stand in groups talking and spitting on the floor. Junk hangs in the
air like a grey haze.
‘A heart-warming sight,’ says Benway, ‘those junkies standing around wai ng
for the Man. Six months ago they were all schizophrenic. Some of them hadn’t
been out of bed for years. Now look at them. In all the course of my prac ces, I
have never seen a schizophrenic junky, and junkies are mostly of the schizo
physical type. Want to cure anybody of anything, ﬁnd out who doesn’t have it. So
who don’t got it? Junkies don’t got it. Oh, incidentally, there’s an area in Bolivia
with no psychosis. Right sane folk in them hills. Like to get in there, me, before it
is loused up by literacy, adver sing, TV and drive-ins. Make a study strictly from
metabolism: diet, use of drugs and alcohol, sex, etc. Who cares what they think?
Same nonsense everybody thinks, I daresay.
‘And why don’t junkies got schizophrenia? Don’t know yet. A schizophrenic
can ignore hunger and starve to death if he isn’t fed. No one can ignore heroin
withdrawal. The fact of addiction imposes contact.
‘But that’s only one angle. Mescaline, LSD6, deteriorated adrenalin, harmaline
can produce an approximate schizophrenia. The best stuﬀ is extracted from theblood of schizos; so schizophrenia is likely a drug psychosis. They got a metabolic
connec on, a Man Within you might say. (Interested readers are referred to
Appendix.)
‘In the terminal stage of schizophrenia the backbrain is permanently
depressed, and the front brain is almost without content since the front brain is
only active in response to backbrain stimulation.
‘Morphine calls forth the an dote of backbrain s mula on similar to schizo
substance. (Note similarity between withdrawal syndrome and intoxica on with
Yage or LSD6.) Eventual result of junk use – especially true of heroin addic on
where large doses are available to the addict – is permanent backbrain
depression and a state much like terminal schizophrenia: complete lack of aﬀect,
au sm, virtual absence of cerebral event. The addict can spend eight hours
looking at a wall. He is conscious of his surroundings, but they have no emo onal
connota on and in consequence no interest. Remembering a period of heavy
addic on is like playing back a tape recording of events experienced by the front
brain alone. Flat statements of external events. “I went to the store and bought
some brown sugar. I came home and ate half the box. I took a three grain shot
etc.” Complete absence of nostalgia in these memories. However, as soon as
junk intake falls below par, the withdrawal substance floods the body.
‘If all pleasure is relief from tension, junk aﬀords relief from the whole life
process, in disconnec ng the hypothalamus, which is the center of psychic energy
and libido.
‘Some of my learned colleagues (nameless assholes) have suggested that junk
derives its euphoric eﬀect from direct s mula on of the orgasm center. It seems
more probable that junk suspends the whole cycle of tension, discharge and rest.
The orgasm has no func on in the junky. Boredom, which always indicates an
undischarged tension, never troubles the addict. He can look at his shoe for eight
hours. He is only roused to action when the hourglass of junk runs out.’
At the far end of the ward an a endant throws up an iron shu er and lets out
a hog call. The junkies rush up grunting and squealing.
‘Wise guy,’ says Benway. ‘No respect for human dignity. Now I’ll show you the
mild deviant and criminal ward. Yes, a criminal is a mild deviant here. He doesn’t
deny the Freeland contract. He merely seeks to circumvent some of the clauses.
Reprehensible but not too serious. Down this hall … We’ll skip wards 23, 86, 57
and 97 … and the laboratory.’
‘Are homosexuals classed as deviants?’
‘No. Remember the Bismarck Archipelago. No overt homosexuality. A
functioning police state needs no police. Homosexuality does not occur to
anyone as conceivable behaviour…. Homosexuality is a political crime in a
matriarchy. No society tolerates overt rejec on of its basic tenets. We aren’t a
matriarchy here, Insh’allah. You know the experiment with rats where they are
subject to this electric shock and dropped in cold water if they so much as move
at a female. So they all become fruit rats and that’s the way it is with thee ology. And shall such a rat squeak out, “I’m queah and I luuuuuuuuve it” or
“Who cut yours oﬀ, you two-holed freak?” ’twere a square rat so to squeak.
During my rather brief experience as a psychoanalyst – spot of bother with the
Society – one pa ent ran amok in Grand Central with a ﬂame thrower, two
commi ed suicide and one died on the couch like a jungle rat (jungle rats are
subject to die if confronted suddenly with a hopeless situa on). So his rela ons
beef and I tell them, “It’s all in the day’s work. Get this s ﬀ outa here. It’s a bring
down for my live pa ents” – I no ced that all my homosexual pa ents
manifested strong unconscious heterosex trends and all my hetero pa ents
unconscious homosexual trends. Makes the brain reel, don’t it?’
‘And what do you conclude from that?’
‘Conclude? Nothing whatever. Just a passing observation.’
We are eating lunch in Benway’s office when he gets a call.
‘What’s that? … Monstrous! Fantastic! … Carry on and stand by.’
He puts down the phone. ‘I am prepared to accept immediate assignment
with Islam Incorporated. It seems the electronic brain went berserk playing six-
dimensional chess with the Technician and released every subject in the R.C.
Leave us adjourn to the roof. Operation Helicopter is indicated.’
From the roof of the R.C. we survey a scene of unparalleled horror. IND’s stand
around in front of the café tables, long streamers of saliva hanging oﬀ their chins,
stomachs noisily churning, others ejaculate at the sight of women. Latahs imitate
the passers-by with monkey-like obscenity. Junkies have looted the drugstores
and ﬁx on every street corner.… Catatonics decorate the parks.… Agitated
schizophrenics rush through the streets with mangled, inhuman cries. A group of
P.R.’s – Par ally Recondi oned – have surrounded some homosexual tourists
with horrible knowing smiles showing the Nordic skull beneath in double
exposure.
‘What do you want?’ snaps one of the queens.
‘We want to understand you.’
A con ngent of howling simopaths swing from chandeliers, balconies and
trees, shi ng and pissing on passersby. (A simopath – the technical name for this
disorder escapes me – is a ci zen convinced he is an ape or other simian. It is a
disorder peculiar to the army, and discharge cures it.) Amoks trot along cu ng
oﬀ heads, faces sweet and remote with a dreamy half smile.… Ci zens with
incipient Bang-utot clutch their penises and call on the tourists for help.… Arab
rioters yipe and howl, castra ng, disembowelling, throw burning gasoline.…
Dancing boys striptease with intes nes, women s ck severed genitals in their
cunts, grind, bump and ﬂick it at the man of their choice.… Religious fana cs
harangue the crowd from helicopters and rain stone tablets on their heads,
inscribed with meaningless messages.… Leopard Men tear people to pieces with
iron claws, coughing and grun ng.… Kwakiutl Cannibal Society ini ates bite oﬀ
noses and ears.…
A coprophage calls for a plate, shits on it and eats the shit, exclaiming,‘Mmmm, that’s my rich substance.’
A ba alion of rampant bores prowls the streets and hotel lobbies in search of
vic ms. An intellectual avantgardist – ‘Of course the only wri ng worth
considering now is to be found in scien ﬁc reports and periodicals’ – has given
someone a bulbocapnine injec on and is preparing to read him a bulle n on ‘the
use of neohemoglobin in the control of mul ple degenera ve granuloma.’ (Of
course, the reports are all gibberish he has concocted and printed up.)
His opening words: ‘You look to me like a man of intelligence.’ (Always
ominous words, my boy … When you hear them stay not on the order of your
going but go at once.)
An English colonial, assisted by ﬁve police boys, has detained a subject in the
club bar: ‘I say, do you know Mozambique?’ and he launches into the endless saga
of his malaria. ‘So the doctor said to me, “I can only advise you to leave the area.
Otherwise I shall bury you.” This croaker does a li le undertaking on the side.
Piecing out the odds you might say, and throwing himself a spot of business now
and then.’ So a er the third pink gin when he gets to know you, he shi s to
dysentery. ‘Most extraordinary discharge. More or less of a white yellow color
like rancid jism and stringy you know.’
An explorer in sun helmet has brought down a ci zen with blow gun and
curare dart. He administers ar ﬁcial respira on with one foot. (Curare kills by
paralyzing the lungs. It has no other toxic eﬀect, is not, strictly speaking, a poison.
If artificial respiration is administered the subject will not die. Curare is eliminated
with great rapidity by the kidneys.) ‘That was the year of the rindpest when
everything died, even the hyenas.… So there I was completely out of K.Y. in the
headwaters of the Baboonsasshole. When it came through by air drop my
gra tude was indescribable.… As a ma er of fact, and I have never told this
before to a living soul – elusive blighters’ – his voice echoes through a vast empty
hotel lobby in 1890 style, red plush, rubber plants, gilt and statues – ‘I was the
only white man ever ini ated into the infamous Agou Society, witnessed and
participated in their unspeakable rites.’
The Agou Society has turned out for a Chimu Fiesta. (The Chimu of ancient
Peru were much given to sodomy and occasionally staged bloody ba les with
clubs, running up several hundred casual es in the course of an a ernoon.) The
youths, sneering and goosing each other with clubs, troop out to the ﬁeld. Now
the battle begins.
Gentle reader, the ugliness of that spectacle buggers descrip on. Who can be
a cringing pissing coward, yet vicious as a purple-assed mandril, alterna ng these
deplorable condi ons like vaudeville skits? Who can shit on a fallen adversary
who, dying, eats the shit and screams with joy? Who can hang a weak passive and
catch his sperm in mouth like a vicious dog? Gentle reader, I fain would spare you
this, but my pen hath its will like the Ancient Mariner. Oh Christ what a scene is
this! Can tongue or pen accommodate these scandals? A beastly young hooligan
has gouged out the eye of his confrere and fuck him in the brain. ‘This brainatrophy already, and dry as grandmother’s cunt.’
He turns into Rock and Roll hoodlum. ‘I screw the old gash – like a crossword
puzzle what rela on to me is the outcome if it outcome? My father already or
not yet? I can’t screw you, Jack, you is about to become my father, and be er
’twere to cut your throat and screw my mother playing it straight than fuck my
father or vice versa muta s mutandis as the case may be, and cut my mother’s
throat, that sainted gash, though it be the best way I know to stem her word
horde and freeze her asset. I mean when a fellow be caught short in the switches
and don’t know is he to oﬀer up his ass to ‘great big daddy’ or commit a torso job
on the old lady. Give me two cunts and a prick of steel and keep your dirty ﬁnger
out of my sugar bum what you think I am a purple-assed recep on already
fugi ve from Gibraltar? Male and female castrated he them. Who can’t
dis nguish between the sexes? I’ll cut your throat you white mother fucker.
Come out in the open like my grandchild and meet thy unborn mother in dubious
ba le. Confusion hath fuck his masterpiece. I have cut the janitor’s throat quite
by mistake of iden ty, he being such a horrible fuck like the old man. And in the
coal bin all cocks are alike.’
So leave us return to the stricken ﬁeld. One youth hath penetrate his
comrade, whilst another youth does amputate the proudest part of that cock’s
quivering beneﬁciary so that the visi ng member projects to ﬁll the vacuum
nature abhors and ejaculate into the Black Lagoon where impa ent piranha snap
up the child not yet born nor – in view of certain well established facts – at all
likely.
Another bore carries around a suitcase full of trophies and medals, cups and
ribbons: ‘Now this I won for the Most Ingenious Sex Device Contest in Yokohama.
(Hold him, he’s desperate.) The Emperor gave it to me himself and there were
tears in his eyes, and the runners-up all castrated theirselves with harakiri knives.
And I won this ribbon in a Degrada on Contest at the Teheran mee ng of Junkies
Anonymous.’
‘Shot up my wife’s M.S. and her down with a kidney stone big as the Hope
Diamond. So I give her half a Vagamin and tell her, “You can’t expect too much
relief.… Shut up awready. I wanta enjoy my medications.”
‘Stole an opium suppository out of my grandmother’s ass.’
The hypochondriac lassoes the passer-by and administers a straitjacket and
starts talking about his ro ng septum: ‘An awful purulent discharge is subject to
flow out … just wait till you see it.’
He does a striptease to opera on scars, guiding the reluctant ﬁngers of a
vic m ‘Feel that suppurated swelling in my groin where I got the
lymphogranulomas.… And now I want you to palpate my internal haemorrhoids.’
(The reference is to lymphogranuloma, ‘climac c buboes.’ A virus venereal
disease indigenous to Ethiopia. ‘Not for nothing are we known as feelthy
Ethiopians,’ sneers an Ethiopian mercenary as he sodomizes Pharaoh, venomous
as the King’s cobra. Ancient Egyp an papyrus talk all the me about them feelthyEthiopians.
So it started in Addis Ababa like the Jersey Bounce, but these are modern
mes, One World. Now the climac c buboes swell up in Shanghai and
Esmeraldas, New Orleans and Helsinki, Sea le and Capetown. But the heart turns
home and the disease shows a dis nct predilec on for Negroes, is in fact the
whitehaired boy of white supremacists. But the Mau Mau voodoo men are said
to be cooking up a real dilly of a VD for the white folks. Not that Caucasians are
immune: ﬁve Bri sh sailors contracted the disease in Zanzibar. And in Dead Coon
County, Arkansas (‘Blackest Dirt, Whitest People in the U.S.A. – Don’t Let
The Sun Set On You Here’), the County Coroner come down with the buboes fore
and a . A vigilante commi ee of neighbors apologe cally burned him to death in
the Court House privy when his interes ng condi on came to light. ‘Now, Clem,
just think of yourself as a cow with the a osa.’ ‘Or a poltroon with the fowl pest.’
‘Don’t crowd too close, boys. His intes nes is subject to explode in the ﬁre.’ The
disease in short arm hath a gimmick for going places unlike certain unfortunate
viruses who are fated to languish unconsummate in the guts of a ck or a jungle
mosquito, or the saliva of a dying jackal slobbering silver under the desert moon.
And a er an ini al lesion at the point of infec on the disease passes to the lymph
glands of the groin, which swell and burst in suppura ng ﬁssures, drain for days,
months, years, a purulent stringy discharge streaked with blood and putrid lymph.
Elephan asis of the genitals is a frequent complica on, and cases of gangrene
have been recorded where the amputa on in medico of the pa ent from the
waist down was indicated but hardly worth while. Women usually suﬀer
secondary infec on of the anus. Males who resign themselves up for passive
intercourse to infected partners like weak and soon to be purple-assed baboons,
may also nourish a li le stranger. Ini al proc s and the inevitable purulent
discharge – which may pass unno ced in the shuﬄe – is followed by stricture of
the rectum requiring interven on of an apple corer or its surgical equivalent, lest
the unfortunate pa ent be reduced to fart and shit in his teeth giving rise to
stubborn cases of halitosis and unpopularity with all sexes, ages and condi ons of
homo sapiens. In fact a blind bugger was deserted by his seeing eye police dog –
copper at heart. Un l quite recently there was no sa sfactory treatment.
‘Treatment is symptoma c’ – which means in the trade there is none. Now many
cases yield to intensive therapy with aureomycin, teramycin and some of the
newer molds. However a certain appreciable percentage remain refractory as
mountain gorillas.… So, boys, when those hot licks play over your balls and prick
and dart up your ass like an invisible blue blow torch of orgones, in the words of I.
B. Watson, Think. Stop pan ng and start palpa ng … and if you palpate a bubo
draw yourself back in and say in a cold nasal whine: ‘You think I am innarested to
contact your horrible old condition? I am not innarested at all.’)
Rock and Roll adolescent hoodlums storm the streets of all na ons. They rush
into the Louvre and throw acid in the Mona Lisa’s face. They open zoos, insane
asylums, prisons, burst water mains with air hammers, chop the ﬂoor out ofpassenger plane lavatories, shoot out lighthouses, ﬁle elevator cables to one thin
wire, turn sewers into the water supply, throw sharks and s ng rays, electric eels
and candiru into swimming pools (the candiru is a small eel-like ﬁsh or worm
about one-quarter inch through and two inches long patronizing certain rivers of
ill repute in the Greater Amazon Basin, will dart up your prick or your asshole or a
woman’s cunt faute de mieux, and hold himself there by sharp spines with
precisely what mo ves is not known since no one has stepped forward to
observe the candiru’s life-cycle in situ), in nau cal costumes ram the Queen Mary
full speed into New York Harbor, play chicken with passenger planes and buses,
rush into hospitals in white coats carrying saws and axes and scalpels three feet
long; throw paraly cs out of iron lungs (mimic their suﬀoca ons ﬂopping out on
the ﬂoor and rolling their eyes up), administer injec ons with bicycle pumps,
disconnect ar ﬁcial kidneys, saw a woman in half with a two-man surgical saw,
they drive herds of squealing pigs into the Curb, they shit on the ﬂoor of the
United Nations and wipe their ass with treaties, pacts, alliances.
By plane, car, horse, camel, elephant, tractor, bicycle and steam roller, on
foot, skis, sled, crutch and pogo-s ck the tourists storm the fron ers, demanding
with inﬂexible authority asylum from the ‘unspeakable condi ons obtaining in
Freeland,’ the Chamber of Commerce striving in vain to stem the debacle: ‘Please
to be restful. It is only a few crazies who have from the crazy place outbroken.’
Joselito
And Joselito who wrote bad, class-conscious poetry began to cough. The German
doctor made a brief examina on, touching Joselito’s ribs with long, delicate
ﬁngers. The doctor was also a concert violinist, a mathema cian, a chess master,
and a Doctor of Interna onal Jurisprudence with license to prac ce in the
lavatories of the Hague. The doctor ﬂicked a hard, distant glance across Joselito’s
brown chest. He looked at Carl and smiled – one educated man to another smile
– and raised his eyebrows, saying without words:
‘Alzo for the so stupid peasant we must avoid use of the word is it not?
Otherwise he shit himself with fear. Koch and spit they are both nasty words I
think?’
He said aloud: ‘It is a catarro de los pulmones.’
Carl talked to the doctor outside under the narrow arcade with rain bouncing
up from the street against his pant legs, thinking how many people he tell it to,
and the stairs, porches, lawns, driveways, corridors and streets of the world there
in the doctor’s eyes … stuﬀy German alcoves, bu erﬂy trays to the ceiling, silent
portentous smell of uremia seeping under the door, suburban lawns to sound of
the water sprinkler in calm jungle night under silent wings of the Anopheles
mosquito. (Note: This is not a ﬁgure. Anopheles mosquitos are silent.) Thickly
carpeted, discreet nursing home in Kensington: s ﬀ brocade chair and a cup of
tea, the Swedish modern living room with water hyacinths in a yellow bowl –outside the China blue Northern sky and dri ing clouds, under bad water-colors
of the dying medical student.
‘A schnaps I think Frau Underschnitt.’
The doctor was talking into a phone with a chess board in front of him. ‘Quite
a severe lesion I think … of course without to see the ﬂuoroscope.’ He picks up
the knight and then replaces it though ully. ‘Yes.…both lungs … quite deﬁnitely.’
He replaces the receiver and turns to Carl. ‘I have observed these people show
amazingly quick wound recovery, with low incidence of infec on. It is always the
lungs here … pneumonia and, of course, Old Faithful.’ The doctor grabs Carl’s
cock, leaping into the air with a coarse peasant guﬀaw. His European smile
ignores the misbehavior of a child or an animal. He goes on smoothly in his eerily
unaccented, disembodied English. ‘Our Old Faithful Bacillus Koch.’ The doctor
clicks his heels and bows his head. ‘Otherwise they would mul ply their stupid
peasant asshole into the sea, is it not?’ He shrieks, thrus ng his face into Carl’s.
Carl retreats sideways with the grey wall of rain behind him.
‘Isn’t there some place where he can be treated?’
‘I think there is some sort of sanitarium,’ he drags out the word with
ambiguous obscenity, ‘up at the District Capital. I will write for you the address.’
‘Chemical therapy?’
His voice falls flat and heavy in the damp air.
‘Who can say. They are all stupid peasants, and the worst of all peasants are
the so-called educated. These people should not only be prevented from learning
to read, but from learning to talk as well. No need to prevent them from thinking;
nature has done that.’
‘Here is the address,’ the doctor whispered without moving his lips.
He dropped a pill of paper into Carl’s hand. His dirty ﬁngers, shiny over the
dirt, rested on Carl’s sleeve.
‘There is the matter of my fee.’
Carl slipped him a wadded banknote … and the doctor faded into the grey
twilight, seedy and furtive as an old junky.
Carl saw Joselito in a big clean room full of light, with private bath and concrete
balcony. And nothing to talk about there in the cold empty room, water hyacinths
growing in a yellow bowl and the China blue sky and dri ing clouds, fear ﬂickering
in and out of his eyes. When he smiled the fear ﬂew away in li le pieces of light,
lurked enigma cally in the high cool corners of the room. And what could I say
feeling death around me, and the li le broken images that come before sleep,
there in the mind?
‘They will send me to the new sanitarium tomorrow. Come and visit me. I will
be there alone.’
He coughed and took a codeineeta.
‘Doctor I understand, that is I have been given to understand, I have read and
heard – not a medical man myself – don’t pretend to be – that the concept of
sanitarium treatment has been more or less supplanted or at least very deﬁnitelysupplemented by chemical therapy. Is this accurate in your opinion? What I mean
to say is, Doctor, please tell me in all sincerity, as one human being to another,
what is your opinion of chemical versus sanitarium therapy. Are you a partisan?’
The doctor’s liver sick Indian face was blank as a dealer’s.
‘Completely modern, as you can see,’ he gestures toward the room with the
purple ﬁngers of bad circula on. ‘Bath … water … ﬂowers. The lot.’ He ﬁnished in
Cockney English with a triumphant smirk. ‘I will write for you a letter.’
‘This letter? For the sanitarium?’
The doctor was speaking from a land of black rocks and great, iridescent
brown lagoons. ‘The furniture … modern and comfortable. You find it so of
course?’
Carl could not see the sanitarium owing to a false front of green stucco topped
by an intricate neon sign dead and sinister against the sky, wai ng for darkness.
The sanitarium was evidently built on a great limestone promontory, over which
ﬂowering trees and vine tendrils broke in waves. The smell of ﬂowers was heavy
in the air.
The commandante sat at a long trestle under a vine trellis. He was doing
absolutely nothing. He took the le er that Carl handed him and whispered
through it, reading his lips with the le hand. He stuck the le er on a spike over a
toilet. He began transcribing from a ledger full of numbers. He wrote on and on.
Broken images exploded so ly in Carl’s head, and he was moving out of
himself in a silent swoop. Clear and sharp from a great distance he saw himself
si ng in a lunchroom. Overdose of H. His old lady shaking him and holding hot
coffee under his nose.
Outside an old junky in Santa Claus suit selling Christmas seals. ‘Fight
tuberculosis, folks,’ he whispers in his disembodied, junky voice. Salva on Army
choir of sincere, homosexual football coaches sings: ‘In the Sweet Bye and Bye.’
Carl drifted back into his body, an earthbound junk ghost.
‘I could bribe him, of course.’
The commandante taps the table with one ﬁnger and hums ‘Coming Through
the Rye.’ Far away, then urgently near like a foghorn a split second before the
grinding crash.
Carl pulled a note half out of his trouser pocket.… The commandante was
standing by a vast panel of lockers and deposit boxes. He looked at Carl, sick
animal eyes gone out dying inside, hopeless fear reﬂec ng the face of death. In
the smell of ﬂowers a note half out of his pocket, the weakness hit Carl, shu ng
oﬀ his breath, stopping his blood. He was in a great cone spinning down to a
black point.
‘Chemical therapy?’ The scream shot out of his ﬂesh through empty locker
rooms and barracks, musty resort hotels, and spectral, coughing corridors of T.B.
sanitariums, the mu ering, hawking, grey dishwater smell of ﬂophouses and Old
Men’s Homes, great, dusty custom sheds and warehouses, through broken
por coes and smeared arabesques, iron urinals worn paper thin by the urine of amillion fairies, deserted weed-grown privies with a musty smell of shit turning
back to the soil, erect wooden phallus on the grave of dying peoples plain ve as
leaves in the wind, across the great brown river where the whole trees ﬂoat with
green snakes in the branches and sad-eyed lemurs watch the shore out over a
vast plain (vulture wings husk in the dry air). The way is strewn with broken
condoms and empty H caps and K.Y. tubes squeezed dry as bone meal in the
summer sun.
‘My furniture.’ The commandante’s face burned like metal in the ﬂash bulb of
urgency. His eyes went out. A whiﬀ of ozone dri ed through the room. The
‘novia’ muttered over her candles and altars in one corner.
‘It is all Trak … modern, excellent …’ he is nodding idio cally and drooling. A
yellow cat pulls at Carl’s pant leg and runs onto a concrete balcony. Clouds dri
by.
‘I could get back my deposit. Start me a li le business someplace.’ He nods
and smiles like a mechanical toy.
‘Joselito!!!’ Boys look up from street ball games, bull rings and bicycle races as
the name whistles by and slowly fades away.
‘Joselito! … Paco! … Pepe! … Enrique! …’ The plain ve boy cries dri in on the
warm night. The Trak sign stirs like a nocturnal beast, and bursts into blue flame.
The Black Meat
‘We friends, yes?’
The shoe shine boy put on his hustling smile and looked up into the Sailor’s
dead, undersea eyes, eyes without a trace of warmth or lust or hate or any
feeling the boy had ever experienced in himself or seen in another, at once cold
and intense, impersonal and predatory.
The sailor leaned forward and put a ﬁnger on the boy’s inner arm at the
elbow. He spoke in his dead, junky whisper.
‘With veins like that, Kid, I’d have myself a time!’
He laughed, black insect laughter that seemed to serve some obscure function
of orienta on like a bat’s squeak. The Sailor laughed three mes. He stopped
laughing and hung there mo onless listening down into himself. He had picked up
the silent frequency of junk. His face smoothed out like yellow wax over the high
cheek-bones. He waited half a cigare e. The Sailor knew how to wait. But his
eyes burned in a hideous dry hunger. He turned his face of controlled emergency
in a slow half pivot to case the man who had just come in. ‘Fats’ Terminal sat
there sweeping the café with blank, periscope eyes. When his eyes passed the
Sailor he nodded minutely. Only the peeled nerves of junk sickness would have
registered a movement.
The Sailor handed the boy a coin. He dri ed over to Fats’ table with his
ﬂoa ng walk and sat down. They sat a long me in silence. The café was built
into one side of a stone ramp at the bo om of a high white canyon of masonry.Faces of The City poured through silent as ﬁsh, stained with vile addic ons and
insect lusts. The lighted café was a diving bell, cable broken, se ling into black
depths.
The Sailor was polishing his nails on the lapels of his glen plaid suit. He
whistled a little tune through his shiny, yellow teeth.
When he moved an eﬄuvia of mold dri ed out of his clothes, a musty smell
of deserted locker rooms. He studied his nails with phosphorescent intensity.
‘Good thing here, Fats. I can deliver twenty. Need an advance of course.’
‘On spec?’
‘So I don’t have the twenty eggs in my pocket. I tell you it’s jellied consommé.
One li le whoops and a push.’ The Sailor looked at his nails as if he were studying
a chart. ‘You know I always deliver.’
‘Make it thirty. And a ten tube advance. This time tomorrow.’
‘Need a tube now, Fats.’
‘Take a walk, you’ll get one.’
The Sailor dri ed down into the Plaza. A street boy was shoving a newspaper
in the Sailor’s face to cover his hand on the Sailor’s pen. The Sailor walked on. He
pulled the pen out and broke it like a nut in his thick, ﬁbrous, pink ﬁngers. He
pulled out a lead tube. He cut one end of the tube with a li le curved knife. A
black mist poured out and hung in the air like boiling fur. The Sailor’s face
dissolved. His mouth undulated forward on a long tube and sucked in the black
fuzz, vibra ng in supersonic peristalsis disappeared in a silent, pink explosion. His
face came back into focus unbearably sharp and clear, burning yellow brand of
junk searing the grey haunch of a million screaming junkies.
‘This will last a month,’ he decided, consulting an invisible mirror.
All streets of the City slope down between deepening canyons to a vast,
kidney-shaped plaza full of darkness. Walls of street and plaza are perforated by
dwelling cubicles and cafés, some a few feet deep, others extending out of sight
in a network of rooms and corridors.
At all levels criss-cross of bridges, cat walks, cable cars. Catatonic youths
dressed as women in gowns of burlap and ro en rags, faces heavily and crudely
painted in bright colors over a strata of bea ngs, arabesques of broken,
suppura ng scars to the pearly bone, push against the passers-by in silent clinging
insistence.
Traﬃckers in the Black Meat, ﬂesh of the giant aqua c black cen pede –
some mes a aining a length of six feet – found in a lane of black rocks and
iridescent, brown lagoons, exhibit paralyzed crustaceans in camouﬂage pockets
of the Plaza visible only to the Meat Eaters.
Followers of obsolete unthinkable trades, doodling in Etruscan, addicts of
drugs not yet synthesized, black marketeers of World War III, excisors of
telepathic sensi vity, osteopaths of the spirit, inves gators of infrac ons
denounced by bland paranoid chess players, servers of fragmentary warrants
taken down in hebephrenic shorthand charging unspeakable mu la ons of thespirit, oﬃcials of uncons tuted police states, brokers of exquisite dreams and
nostalgias tested on the sensi zed cells of junk sickness and bartered for raw
materials of the will, drinkers of the Heavy Fluid sealed in translucent amber of
dreams.
The Meet Café occupies one side of the Plaza, a maze of kitchens,
restaurants, sleeping cubicles, perilous iron balconies and basements opening into
the underground baths.
On stools covered in white sa n sit naked Mugwumps sucking translucent,
colored syrups through alabaster straws. Mugwumps have no liver and nourish
themselves exclusively on sweets. Thin, purple-blue lips cover a razorsharp beak
of black bone with which they frequently tear each other to shreds in ﬁghts over
clients. These creatures secrete an addic ng ﬂuid from their erect penises which
prolongs life by slowing metabolism. (In fact all longevity agents have proved
addic ng in exact ra o to their eﬀec veness in prolonging life.) Addicts of
Mugwump ﬂuid are known as Rep les. A number of these ﬂow over chairs with
their ﬂexible bones and black-pink ﬂesh. A fan of green car lage covered with
hollow, erec le hairs through which the Rep les absorb the ﬂuid sprouts from
behind each ear. The fans, which move from me to me touched by invisible
currents, serve also some form of communication known only to Reptiles.
During the biennial Panics when the raw, pealed Dream Police storm the City,
the Mugwumps take refuge in the deepest crevices of the wall sealing themselves
in day cubicles and remain for weeks in biostasis. In those days of grey terror the
Rep les dart about faster and faster, scream past each other at supersonic
speed, their flexible skulls flapping in black winds of insect agony.
The Dream Police disintegrate in globs of ro en ectoplasm swept away by an
old junky, coughing and spi ng in the sick morning. The Mugwump Man comes
with alabaster jars of fluid and the Reptiles get smoothed out.
The air is once again still and clear as glycerine.
The Sailor spo ed his Rep le. He dri ed over and ordered a green syrup. The
Rep le had a li le, round disk mouth of brown gristle, expressionless green eyes
almost covered by a thin membrane of eyelid. The Sailor waited an hour before
the creature picked up his presence.
‘Any eggs for Fats?’ he asked, his words stirring through the Reptile’s fan hairs.
It took two hours for the Rep le to raise three pink transparent ﬁngers
covered with black fuzz.
Several Meat Eaters lay in vomit, too weak to move. (The Black meat is like a
tainted cheese, overpoweringly delicious and nausea ng so that the eaters eat
and vomit and eat again until they fall exhausted.)
A painted youth slithered in and seized one of the great black claws sending
the sweet, sick smell curling through the café.
HospitalDisintoxica on Notes. Paranoia of early withdrawal.… Everything looks blue.…
Flesh dead, doughy, toneless.
Withdrawal Nightmares. A mirror-lined café. Empty.… Wai ng for something.
… A man appears in a side door.… A slight, short Arab dressed in a brown jellaba
with grey beard and grey face.… There is a pitcher of boiling acid in my hand.…
Seized by a convulsion of urgency, I throw it in his face.…
Everyone looks like a drug addict.…
Take a li le walk in the hospital pa o.… In my absence someone has used my
scissors, they are stained with some s cky, red brown gick.… No doubt that li le
bitch of a criada trimming her rag.
Horrible-looking Europeans clu er up the stairs, intercept the nurse when I
need my medicine, empty piss into the basin when I am washing, occupy the toilet
for hours on end – probably ﬁshing for a ﬁnger stall of diamonds they have
stashed up their asshole.…
In fact the whole clan of Europeans has moved in next to me.… The old
mother is having an opera on and her daughter move right in to see the old gash
receive proper service. Strange visitors, presumably rela ves … One of them
wears as glasses those gadgets jewelers screw into their eye to examine stones.…
Probably a diamond-cu er on the skids … The man who loused up the
Throckmorton Diamond and was drummed out of the industry.… All these
jewelers standing around the Diamond in their frock coats, wai ng on The Man.
An error of one thousandth of an inch ruins the rock complete and they have to
import this character special from Amsterdam to do the job.… So he reels in dead
drunk with a huge air hammer and pounds the diamond to dust.…
I don’t check these ci zens.… Dope peddlers from Aleppo? … Slunk traﬃckers
from Buenos Aires? Illegal diamond buyers from Johannesburg? … Slave traders
from Somaliland? Collaborators at the very least.…
Con nual dreams of junk: I am looking for a poppy ﬁeld.… Moonshiners in
black Stetsons direct me to a Near East café.… One of the waiters is a connec on
for Yugoslav opium.…
Buy a packet of heroin from a Malay Lesbian in white belted trenchcoat.… I
cop the paper in Tibetan sec on of a museum. She keeps trying to steal it back.…
I am looking for a place to fix.…
The cri cal point of withdrawal is not the early phase of acute sickness, but
the ﬁnal step free from the medium of junk.… There is a nightmare interlude of
cellular panic, life suspended between two ways of being.… At this point the
longing for junk concentrates in a last, all-out yen, and seems to gain a dream
power: circumstances put junk in your way.… You meet an old- me Schmecker, a
larcenous hospital attendant, a writing croaker.…
A guard in a uniform of human skin, black buck jacket with carious yellow teeth
bu ons, an elas c pullover shirt in burnished Indian copper, adolescent-nordic-
sun-tan slacks, sandals from calloused foot soles of young Malayan farmer, an
ash-brown scarf kno ed and tucked in the shirt. (Ash-brown is a color like greyunder brown skin. You some mes ﬁnd it in mixed Negro and white stock, the
mixture did not come off and the colors separated out like oil on water.…)
The Guard is a sharp dresser, since he has nothing to do and saves all his pay
to buy ﬁne clothes and changes three mes a day in front of an enormous
magnifying mirror. He has a La n handsome-smooth face with a pencil line
mustache, small black eyes, blank and greedy, undreaming insect eyes.
When I get to the fron er the Guard rushes out of his casita, a mirror frame
slung round his neck. He is trying to get the mirror oﬀ his neck.… This has never
happened before, that anyone reached the fron er. The Guard has injured his
larynx taking oﬀ the mirror frame.…He has lost his voice.… He opens his mouth,
you can see the tongue jumping around inside. The smooth blank young face and
the open mouth with the tongue moving inside are incredibly hideous. The Guard
holds up his hand. His whole body jerks in convulsive nega on. I go over and
unhook the chain across the road. It falls with a clank of metal on stone. I walk
through. The Guard stands there in the mist looking a er me. Then he hooks the
chain up again, goes back into the casita and starts plucking at his mustache.
They just bring so-called lunch.… A hard-boiled egg with the shell oﬀ revealing an
object like I never seen before.… A very small egg of a yellow-brown color …
Perhaps laid by the duck-billed platypus. The orange contained a huge worm and
very li le else.… He really got there ﬁrstest with the mostest.… In Egypt is a worm
gets into your kidneys and grows to a enormous size. Ul mately the kidney is just
a thin shell around the worm. Intrepid gourmets esteem the ﬂesh of The Worm
above all other delicacies. It is said to be unspeakably toothsome.… An Interzone
coroner known as Autopsy Ahmed made a fortune trafficking The Worm.
The French school is opposite my window and I dig the boys with my eight-
power ﬁeld glasses.… So close I could reach out and touch them.… They wear
shorts.… I can see the goose-pimples on their legs in the cold Spring morning.… I
project myself out through the glasses and across the street, a ghost in the
morning sunlight, torn with disembodied lust.
Did I ever tell you about the me Mary and me pay two Arab kids sixty cents
to watch them screw each other? So I ask Mary, ‘Do you think they will do it?’
And he says, ‘I think so. They are hungry.’
And I say, ‘That’s the way I like to see them.’
Makes me feel sorta like a dirty old man but, ‘Son cosas de la vida,’ as Sobera
de la Flor said when the fuzz upbraids him for blas ng this cunt and taking the
dead body to the Bar O Motel and fucking it.…
‘She play hard to get already,’ he say … ‘I don’t ha a take that sound.’ (Sobera
de la Flor was a Mexican criminal convict of several rather pointless murders.)
The lavatory has been locked for three hours solid.… I think they are using it for
an operating room.…
nurse: ‘I can’t find her pulse, doctor.’
DR. BENWAY: ‘Maybe she got it up her snatch in a finger stall.’NURSE: ‘Adrenalin, doctor?’
DR. BENWAY: ‘The night porter shot it all up for kicks.’ He looks around and picks
up one of those rubber vacuum cups at the end of a s ck they use to unstop
toilets.… He advances on the pa ent.…‘Make an incision, Doctor Limpf,’ he says
to his appalled assistant.…‘I’m going to massage the heart.’
Dr. Limpf shrugs and begins the incision. Dr. Benway washes the suc on cup
by swishing it around in the toilet-bowl.…
NURSE: ‘Shouldn’t it be sterilized, doctor?’
DR. BENWAY: ‘Very likely, but there’s no me.’ He sits on the suc on cup like a
cane seat watching his assistant make the incision.…‘You young squirts couldn’t
lance a pimple without an electric vibra ng scalpel with automa c drain and
suture.… Soon we’ll be opera ng by remote control on pa ents we never see.…
We’ll be nothing but bu on pushers. All the skill is going out of surgery.… All the
know-how and make-do.… Did I ever tell you about the me I performed an
appendectomy with a rusty sardine can? And once I was caught short without
instrument one and removed a uterine tumor with my teeth. That was in the
Upper Effendi, and besides …’
DR. LIMPF: ‘The incision is ready, doctor.’
Dr. Benway forces the cup into the incision and works it up and down. Blood
spurts all over the doctors, the nurse and the wall … The cup makes a horrible
sucking sound.
NURSE: ‘I think she’s gone, doctor.’
DR. BENWAY: ‘Well, it’s all in the day’s work.’ He walks across the room to a
medicine cabinet.…‘Some fucking drug addict has cut my cocaine with Saniﬂush!
Nurse! Send the boy out to fill this RX on the double!’
Dr. Benway is opera ng in an auditorium ﬁlled with students: ‘Now, boys, you
won’t see this opera on performed very o en and there’s a reason for that.…
You see it has absolutely no medical value. No one knows what the purpose of it
originally was or if it had a purpose at all. Personally I think it was a pure ar s c
creation from the beginning.
‘Just as a bull ﬁghter with his skill and knowledge extricates himself from
danger he has himself invoked, so in this opera on the surgeon deliberately
endangers his pa ent, and then, with incredible speed and celerity, rescues him
from death at the last possible split second.… Did any of you ever see Dr.
Tetrazzini perform? I say perform advisedly because his opera ons were
performances. He would start by throwing a scalpel across the room into the
pa ent and then make his entrance like a ballet dancer. His speed was incredible:
“I don’t give them me to die,” he would say. Tumors put him in a frenzy of rage.
“Fucking undisciplined cells!” he would snarl, advancing on the tumor like a knife-
fighter.’
A young man leaps down into the opera ng theatre and, whipping out a
scalpel, advances on the patient.
DR. BENWAY: ‘An espontaneo! Stop him before he guts my patient!’(Espontaneo is a bull-ﬁgh ng term for a member of the audience who leaps
down into the ring, pulls out a concealed cape and a empts a few passes with
the bull before he is dragged out of the ring.)
The orderlies scuffle with the espontaneo, who is finally ejected from the hall.
The anesthe st takes advantage of the confusion to pry a large gold ﬁlling from
the patient’s mouth.…
I am passing room 10 they moved me out of yesterday.… Maternity case I
assume … Bedpans full of blood and Kotex and nameless female substances,
enough to pollute a con nent … If someone comes to visit me in my old room he
will think I gave birth to a monster and the State Department is trying to hush it
up.…
Music from I Am an American … An elderly man in the striped pants and
cutaway of a diplomat stands on a pla orm draped with the American ﬂag. A
decayed, corseted tenor – burs ng out of a Daniel Boone costume – is singing the
Star Spangled Banner, accompanied by a full orchestra. He sings with a slight lisp.
…
THE DIPLOMAT (reading from a great scroll of cker tape that keeps growing and
tangling around his feet): ‘And we categorically deny that any male ci zen of the
United States of America …’
TENOR: ‘Oh thay can you thee …’ His voice breaks and shoots up to a high
falsetto.
In the control room the Technician mixes a bicarbonate of soda and belches
into his hand: ‘God damned tenor’s a brown ar st,’ he mu ers sourly. ‘Mike!
rumph,’ the shout ends in a belch. ‘Cut that swish fart oﬀ the air and give him his
purple slip. He’s through as of right now.… Put in that sex-changed Liz athlete.…
She’s a full me tenor at least… .Costume? How in the fuck should I know? I’m no
dress designer swish from the costume department! What’s that? The en re
costume department occluded as a security risk? What am I, an octopus? Let’s
see … How about an Indian rou ne? Pocahontas or Hiawatha? … No, that’s not
right. Some ci zen cracks wise about giving it back to the Indians.… A Civil War
uniform, the coat North and the pants South like it show they got together again?
She can come on like Buﬀalo Bill or Paul Revere or that ci zen wouldn’t give up
the shit, I mean the ship, or a G.I. or a Doughboy or the unknown Soldier.… That’s
the best deal.… Cover her with a monument, that way nobody has to look at her.
…’
The Lesbian, concealed in a papier maché Arc de Triomphe ﬁlls her great lungs
and looses a tremendous bellow.
‘Oh say do that Star Spangled Banner yet wave …’
A great rent rips the Arc de Triomphe from top to bo om. The Diplomat puts
a hand to his forehead.…
THE DIPLOMAT: ‘That any male ci zen of the United States has given birth in
Interzone or at any other place.…’
‘O’er the land of the FREEEEEEEEEEE …’The Diplomat’s mouth is moving but no one can hear him. The Technician
clasps his hands over his ears: ‘Mother of God!’ he screams. His plate begins to
vibrate like a Jew’s harp, suddenly ﬂies out of his mouth.… He snaps at it irritably,
misses and covers his mouth with one hand.
The Arc de Triomphe falls with a ripping, splintering crash, reveals the Lesbian
standing on a pedestal clad only in a leopard-skin jockstrap with enormous falsie
basket.… She stands there smiling stupidly and ﬂexing her huge muscles.… The
Technician is crawling around on the control room ﬂoor looking for his plate and
shouting unintelligible orders: ‘Thess thupper thonic!! Thut ur oth thu thair!’
THE DIPLOMAT (wiping sweat from his brow): ‘To any creature of any type or
description …’
‘And the home of the brave.’
The diplomat’s face is grey. He staggers, trips in the scroll, sags against the
rail, blood pouring from eyes, nose and mouth, dying of cerebral hemorrhage.
THE DIPLOMAT (barely audible): ‘The Department denies … un-American … It’s
been destroyed … I mean it never was … Categor …’ Dies.
In the Control Room instrument panels are blowing out … great streamers of
electricity crackle through the room.… The Technician, naked, his body burned
black, staggers about like a ﬁgure in Gö erdämmerung, screaming: ‘Thubber
thonic!! Oth thu thair!!!’ A final blast reduces the Technician to a cinder.
Gave proof through the night
That our flag was still there.…
Habit Notes. Shoo ng Eukodol every two hours I have a place where I can slip my
needle right into a vein, it stays open like a red, festering mouth, swollen and
obscene, gathers a slow drop of blood and pus after the shot.…
Eukodol is a chemical variation of codeine – dihydroxycodeine.
This stuﬀ comes on more like C than M.… When you shoot Coke in the
mainline there is a rush of pure pleasure to the head.… Ten minutes later you
want another shot … The pleasure of morphine is in the viscera.… You listen down
into yourself a er a shot.… But intravenous C is electricity through the brain,
ac va ng cocaine pleasure connec ons.… There is no withdrawal syndrome with
C. It is a need of the brain alone – a need without body and without feeling.
Earthbound ghost need. The craving for C lasts only a few hours as long as the C
channels are s mulated. Then you forget it. Eukodol is like a combina on of junk
and C. Trust the Germans to concoct some really evil shit. Eukodol like morphine
is six mes stronger than codeine. Heroin six mes stronger than morphine.
Dihydro-oxy-heroin should be six mes stronger than heroin. Quite possible to
develop a drug so habit-forming that one shot would cause lifelong addiction.
Habit Note continued: Picking up needle I reach spontaneously for the e-up cord
with my le hand. This I take as a sign I can hit the one useable vein in my le
arm. (The movements of tying up are such that you normally e up the arm withwhich you reach for the cord.) The needle slides in easily on the edge of a callous.
I feel around. Suddenly a thin column of blood shoots up into the syringe, for a
moment sharp and solid as a red cord.
The body knows what veins you can hit and conveys this knowledge in the
spontaneous movements you make preparing to take a shot.… Some mes the
needle points like a dowzer’s wand. Some mes I must wait for the message. But
when it comes I always hit blood.
A red orchid bloomed at the bo om of the dropper. He hesitated for a full
second, then pressed the bulb, watching the liquid rush into the vein as if sucked
by the silent thirst of his blood. There was an iridescent, thin coat of blood le in
the dropper, and the white paper collar was soaked through with blood like a
bandage. He reached over and ﬁlled the dropper with water. As he squirted the
water out, the shot hit him in the stomach, a soft sweet blow.
Look down at my ﬁlthy trousers, haven’t been changed in months.… The days
glide by strung on a syringe with a long thread of blood.… I am forge ng sex and
all sharp pleasures of the body – a grey, junk-bound ghost. The Spanish boys call
me El Hombre Invisible – the Invisible Man.…
Twenty push ups every morning. Use of junk removes fat, leaves muscle more or
less intact. The addict seems to need less ssue.… Would it be possible to isolate
the fat-removing molecule of junk?
More and more sta c at the Drug Store, mu erings of control like a telephone
off the hook.… Spent all day until 8 P. M. to score for two boxes of Eukodol.…
Running out of veins and out of money.
Keep going on the nod. Last night I woke up with someone squeezing my hand. It
was my other hand.… Fall asleep reading and the words take on code
signiﬁcance.… Obsessed with codes.… Man contracts a series of diseases which
spell out a code message.…
Take a shot in front of D.L. Probing for a vein in my dirty bare foot.… Junkies
have no shame.… They are impervious to the repugnance of others. It is doub ul
if shame can exist in the absence of sexual libido.… The junky’s shame disappears
with his non-sexual sociability which is also dependent on libido.… The addict
regards his body impersonally as an instrument to absorb the medium in which he
lives, evaluates his ssue with the cold hands of a horse trader. ‘No use trying to
hit there.’ Dead fish eyes flick over a ravaged vein.
Using a new type sleeping pill called Soneryl.… You don’t feel sleepy.… You
shi to sleep without transi on, fall abruptly into the middle of a dream.… I have
been years in a prison camp suffering from malnutrition.…
The President is a junky but can’t take it direct because of his posi on. So he
gets ﬁxed through me.… From me to me we make contact, and I recharge him.
These contacts look, to the casual observer, like homosexual prac ces, but the
actual excitement is not primarily sexual, and the climax is the separa on whenthe recharge is completed. The erect penises are brought into contact – at least
we used that method in the beginning, but contact points wear out like veins.
Now I some mes have to slip my penis under his le eyelid. Of course I can
always ﬁx him with an Osmosis Recharge, which corresponds to a skin shot, but
that is admi ng defeat. An O.R. will put the President in a bad mood for weeks,
and might well precipitate an atomic shambles. And the President pays a high
price for the Oblique Habit. He has sacriﬁced all control, and is dependent as an
unborn child. The Oblique Addict suﬀers a whole spectrum of subjec ve horror,
silent protoplasmic frenzy, hideous agony of the bones. Tensions build up, pure
energy without emo onal content ﬁnally tears through the body throwing him
about like a man in contact with high tension wires. If his charge connection is cut
oﬀ cold, the Oblique Addict falls into such violent electric convulsions that his
bones shake loose, and he dies with the skeleton straining to climb out of his
unendurable flesh and run in a straight line to the nearest cemetery.
The rela on between an O.A. (Oblique Addict) and his R.C. (Recharge
Connec on) is so intense that they can only endure each other’s company for
brief and infrequent intervals – I mean aside from recharge meets, when all
personal contact is eclipsed by the recharge process.
Reading the paper.… Something about a triple murder in the rue de la Merde,
Paris: ‘An adjus ng of scores.’… I keep slipping away.…‘The police have iden ﬁed
the author … Pepe El Culito … The Li le Ass Hole, an aﬀec onate diminu ve.’
Does it really say that? … I try to focus the words … they separate in meaningless
mosaic.…
Lazarus Go Home
Fumbling through faded tape at the pick up fron er, a languid grey area of hiatus
miasmic with yawns and gaping goof holes, Lee found out that the young junky
standing there in his room at 10 A. M. was back from two months skin diving in
Corsica and off the junk.…
‘Here to show oﬀ his new body,’ Lee decided with a shudder of morning junk
sickness. He knew that he was seeing – ah yes Miguel thank you – three months
back si ng in the Metropole nodded out over a stale yellow eclair that would
poison a cat two hours later, decided that the eﬀort involved in seeing Miguel at
10 A. M. was enough without the intolerable chore of correc ng an error – (‘what
is this a fucking farm?’) which would also entail current picture of Miguel in much
used areas like some great, inconvenient beast of an object on top in the
suitcase.
‘You look marvellous,’ Lee said, wiping away the more obvious signs of
distaste with a sloppy, casual napkin, seeing the grey ooze of junk in Miguel’s
face, studying pa erns of shabbiness as if a man and clothes had moved for years
through back alleys of time with never a space station to tidy up.…‘Besides by the me I could correct the error … Lazarus go home.… Pay The
Man and go home.… What I want to see your old borrowed meat for?’
‘Well it’s great to see you oﬀ.… Do yourself a favor.’ Miguel was swimming
around the room spearing fish with his hand.…
‘When you’re down there you never think about horse.’
‘You’re be er oﬀ like this,’ said Lee, dreamily caressing a needle scar on the
back of Miguel’s hand, following the whorls and pa erns of smooth purple ﬂesh
in a slow twisting movement.…
Miguel scratched the back of his hand.… He looked out the window.… His
body moved in li le, galvanized jerks as junk channels lit up.… Lee sat there
waiting. ‘One snort never put anybody back on, kid.’
‘I know what I’m doing.’
‘They always know.’
Miguel took the nail file.
Lee closed his eyes: ‘It’s too tiresome.’
‘Uh thanks that was great.’ Miguel’s pants fell to his ankles. He stood there in
a misshappen overcoat of ﬂesh that turned from brown to green and then
colorless in the morning light, fell off in globs onto the floor.
Lee’s eyes moved in the substance of his face … a li le, cold, grey ﬂick.
…‘Clean it up,’ he said. ‘Enough dirt in here now.’
‘Oh uh sure,’ Miguel fumbled with a dustpan.
Lee put the packet of heroin away.
Lee lived in a permanent third-day kick, with, of course, certain uh essen al
intermissions to refuel the ﬁres that burned through his yellow-pink-brown
gelatinous substance and kept oﬀ the hovering ﬂesh. In the beginning his ﬂesh
was simply so , so so that he was cut to the bone by dust par cles, air currents
and brushing overcoats while direct contact with doors and chairs seemed to
occasion no discomfort. No wound healed in his so , tenta ve ﬂesh.… Long
white tendrils of fungus curled round the naked bones. Mold odors of atrophied
testicles quilted his body in a fuzzy grey fog.…
During his ﬁrst severe infec on the boiling thermometer ﬂashed a quicksilver
bullet into the nurse’s brain and she fell dead with a mangled scream. The doctor
took one look and slammed steel shu ers of survival. He ordered the burning bed
and its occupant immediately evicted from the hospital premises.
‘Guess he can make his own penicillin!’ snarled the doctor.
But the infec on burned the mold out.… Lee lived now in varying degrees of
transparency.… While not exactly invisible he was at least diﬃcult to see. His
presence a racted no special no ce.… People covered him with a project or
dismissed him as a reﬂec on, shadow: ‘Some kinda light trick or neon
advertisement.’
Now Lee felt the ﬁrst seismic tremors of Old Faithful the Cold Burn. He
pushed Miguel’s spirit into the hall with a kind, firm tendril.
‘Jesus!’ said Miguel ‘I gotta go!’ He rushed out.Pink ﬁres of histamine spurted from Lee’s glowing core and covered his raw
periphery. (The room was ﬁreproof, the walls of iron blistered and spo ed with
moon craters.) He took a large fix and falsified his schedule.
He decided to visit a colleague, NG Joe, who got hooked during a Bang-utot
attack in Honolulu.
(Note: Bang-utot, literally, ‘a emp ng to get up and groaning …’ Death
occurring in the course of a nightmare … The condi on occurs in males of S.E.
Asia c extrac on.… In Manila about twelve cases of death by Bang-utot are
recorded each year.
One man who recovered said that ‘a li le man’ was si ng on his chest and
strangling him.
Victims often know that they are going to die, express the fear that their penis
will enter the body and kill them. Some mes they cling to the penis in a state of
shrieking hysteria calling on others for help lest the penis escape and pierce the
body. Erec ons, such as normally occur in sleep, are considered especially
dangerous and liable to bring a fatal a ack.… One man devised a Rube Goldberg
contraption to prevent erection during sleep. But he died of Bang-utot.
Careful autopsies of Bang-utot vic ms have revealed no organic reason for
death. There are o en signs of strangula on [caused by what?]; some mes slight
hemorrhages of pancreas and lungs – not suﬃcient to cause death and also of
unknown origin. It has occurred to the author that the cause of death is a
misplacement of sexual energy resul ng in a lung erec on with consequent
strangula on.…[See ar cle by Nils Larsen M.D., The Men with the Deadly Dream
in the Saturday Evening Post, December 3, 1955. Also ar cle by Erle Stanley
Gardner for True Magazine.])
N G lived in constant fear of erec on so his habit jumped and jumped. (Note:
It is a well known resome fact, it is a notoriously dull and long winded fact, that
anyone who gets hooked because of any disability whatever, will be presented,
during the periods of shortage or depriva on [such a thing as too much fun you
know] with an outrageously padded, geometrically progressing, prolifera ng
account.)
An electrode a ached to one tes cle glowed brieﬂy and NG woke up in the
smell of burning ﬂesh and reached for a loaded syringe. He rolled into a foetal
position and slid the needle into his spine. He pulled the needle out with a li le
sigh of pleasure, and realized that Lee was in the room. A long slug undulated out
of Lee’s right eye and wrote on the wall in iridescent ooze: ‘The Sailor is in the
City buying up TIME.’
I am wai ng in front of a drugstore for it to open at nine o’clock. Two Arab
boys roll cans of garbage up to a high heavy wood door in a whitewashed wall.
Dust in front of the door streaked with urine. One of the boys bent over, rolling
the heavy cans, pants ght over his lean young ass. He looks at me with the
neutral, calm glance of an animal. I wake with a shock like the boy is real and I
have missed a meet I had with him for this afternoon.‘We expect addi onal equaliza ons,’ says the Inspector in an interview with
Your Reporter. ‘Otherwise will occur,’ the Inspector li s one leg in a typical
Nordic gesture, ‘the bends is it not? But perhaps we can provide the suitable
chamber of decompression.’
The Inspector opens his ﬂy and begins looking for crabs, applying ointment
from a li le clay pot. Clearly the interview is at an end. ‘You’re not going?’ he
exclaims. ‘Well, as one judge said to the other, “Be just and if you can’t be just be
arbitrary.” Regret cannot observe customary obsceni es.’ He holds up his right
hand covered with a foul-smelling yellow ointment.
One’s Reporter rushes forward and clasps the soiled hand in both of his. ‘It’s
been a pleasure, Inspector, an unspeakable pleasure,’ he says peeling oﬀ his
gloves, rolling them into a ball and tossing them into the waste-basket. ‘Expense
account,’ he smiles.
Hassan’s Rumpus Room
Gilt and red plush. Rococo bar backed by pink shell. The air is cloyed with a sweet
evil substance like decayed honey. Men and women in evening dress sip pousse-
cafés through alabaster tubes. A Near East Mugwump sits naked on a bar stool
covered in pink silk. He licks warm honey from a crystal goblet with a long black
tongue. His genitals are perfectly formed – circumcised cock, black shiny pubic
hairs. His lips are thin and purple-blue like the lips of a penis, his eyes blank with
insect calm. The Mugwump has no liver, maintaining himself exclusively on
sweets. Mugwump push a slender blond youth to a couch and strip him expertly.
‘Stand up and turn around,’ he orders in telepathic pictographs. He es the
boy’s hands behind him with a red silk cord. ‘Tonight we make it all the way.’
‘No, no!’ screams the boy.
‘Yes. Yes.’
Cocks ejaculate in silent ‘yes.’ Mugwump part silk curtains, reveal a teak wood
gallows against lighted screen of red flint. Gallows is on a dais of Aztec mosaics.
The boy crumples to his knees with a long ‘OOOOOOOOH,’ shi ng and pissing
in terror. He feels the shit warm between his thighs. A great wave of hot blood
swells his lips and throat. His body contracts into a foetal posi on and sperm
spurts hot into his face. The Mugwump dips hot perfumed water from alabaster
bowl, pensively washes the boy’s ass and cock, drying him with a so blue towel.
A warm wind plays over the boy’s body and the hairs ﬂoat free. The Mugwump
puts a hand under the boy’s chest and pulls him to his feet. Holding him by both
pinioned elbows, propels him up the steps and under the noose. He stands in
front of the boy holding the noose in both hands.
The boy looks into Mugwump eyes blank as obsidian mirrors, pools of black
blood, glory holes in a toilet wall closing on the Last Erection.
An old garbage collector, face ﬁne and yellow as Chinese ivory, blows The
Blast on his dented brass horn, wakes the Spanish pimp with a hard-on. Whorestaggers out through dust and shit and li er of dead ki ens, carrying bales of
aborted foetuses, broken condoms, bloody Kotex, shit wrapped in bright color
comics.
A vast s ll harbor of iridescent water. Deserted gas well ﬂares on the smoky
horizon. S nk of oil and sewage. Sick sharks swim through the black water, belch
sulphur from ro ng livers, ignore a bloody, broken Icarus. Naked Mr. America,
burning fran c with self bone love, screams out: ‘My asshole confounds the
Louvre! I fart ambrosia and shit pure gold turds! My cock spurts so diamonds in
t he morning sunlight!’ He plummets from the eyeless lighthouse, kissing and
jacking oﬀ in face of the black mirror, glides oblique down with cryp c condoms
and mosaic of a thousand newspapers through a drowned city of red brick to
se le in black mud with n cans and beer bo les, gangsters in concrete, pistols
pounded ﬂat and meaningless to avoid short-arm inspec on of prurient ballis c
experts. He waits the slow striptease of erosion with fossil loins.
The Mugwump slips the noose over the boy’s head and ghtens the knot
caressingly behind the le ear. The boy’s penis is retracted, his balls ght. He
looks straight ahead breathing deeply. The Mugwump sidles around the boy
goosing him and caressing his genitals in hieroglyphs of mockery. He moves in
behind the boy with a series of bumps and shoves his cock up the boy’s ass. He
stands there moving in circular gyrations.
The guests shush each other, nudge and giggle.
Suddenly the Mugwump pushes the boy forward into space, free of his cock.
He steadies the boy with hands on the hip bones, reaches up with his stylized
hieroglyph hands and snaps the boy’s neck. A shudder passes through the boy’s
body. His penis rises in three great surges pulling his pelvis up, ejaculates
immediately.
Green sparks explode behind his eyes. A sweet toothache pain shoots through
his neck down the spine to the groin, contrac ng the body in spasms of delight.
His whole body squeezes out through his cock. A ﬁnal spasm throws a great spurt
of sperm across the red screen like a shooting star.
The boy falls with so gu y suc on through a maze of penny arcades and
dirty pictures.
A sharp turd shoots clean out of his ass. Farts shake his slender body.
Skyrockets burst in green clusters across a great river. He hears the faint put-put
of a motor boat in jungle twilight.… Under silent wings of the anopheles
mosquito.
The Mugwump pulls the boy back onto his cock. The boy squirms, impaled like
a speared ﬁsh. The Mugwump swings on the boy’s back, his body contrac ng in
ﬂuid waves. Blood ﬂows down the boy’s chin from his mouth, half-open, sweet,
and sulky in death. The Mugwump falls with a fluid, sated plop.
Windowless cubicle with blue walls. Dirty pink curtain cover the door. Red bugs
crawl on the wall, cluster in corners. Naked boy in the middle of the room twang
a two-string ouad, trace an arabesque on the ﬂoor. Another boy lean back on thebed smoking keif and blow smoke over his erect cock. They play game with tarot
cards on the bed to see who fuck who. Cheat. Fight. Roll on the ﬂoor snarling and
spitting like young animals. The loser sit on the ﬂoor chin on knees, licks a broken
tooth. The winner curls up on the bed pretending to sleep. Whenever the other
boy come near kick at him. Ali seize him by one ankle, tuck the ankle under the
arm pit, lock his arm around the calf. The boy kick desperately at Ali’s face. Other
ankle pinioned. Ali lt the boy back on his shoulders. The boy’s cock extends
along his stomach, ﬂoat free pulsing. Ali put his hands over his head. Spit on his
cock. The other sighs deeply as Ali slides his cock in. The mouths grind together
smearing blood. Sharp musty odor of penetrated rectum. Nimun drive in like a
wedge, force jism out the other cock in long hot spurts. (The author has observed
that Arab cocks tend to be wide and wedge shaped.)
Satyr and naked Greek lad in aqualungs trace a ballet in pursuit in a monster
vase of transparent alabaster. The Satyr catches the boy from in front and whirls
him around. They move in ﬁsh jerks. The boy releases a silver stream of bubbles
from his mouth. White sperm ejaculates into the green water and ﬂoats lazily
around the twisting bodies.
Negro gently li s exquisite Chinese boy into a hammock. He pushes the boy’s
legs up over his head and straddles the hammock. He slides his cock up the boy’s
slender ght ass. He rocks the hammock gently back and forth. The boy screams,
a weird high wail of unendurable delight.
A Javanese dancer in ornate teak swivel chair, set in a socket of limestone
buttocks, pulls an American boy – red hair, bright green eyes – down onto his cock
with ritual motions. The boy sits impaled facing the dancer who propels himself in
circular gyra ons, lending ﬂuid substance to the chair. ‘Weeeeeeeeee!’ scream
the boy as his sperm spurt up over the dancer’s lean brown chest. One gob hit the
corner of the dancer’s mouth. The boy push it in with his ﬁnger and laugh: ‘Man,
that’s what I call suction!’
Two Arab women with bes al faces have pulled the shorts oﬀ a li le blond
French boy. They are screwing him with red rubber cocks. The boy snarls, bites,
kicks, collapses in tears as his cock rises and ejaculates.
Hassan’s face swells, tumescent with blood. His lips turn purple. He strip oﬀ
his suit of banknotes and throw it into an open vault that closes soundless.
‘Freedom Hall here, folks!’ he screams in his phoney Texas accent. Ten-gallon
hat and cowboy boots s ll on, he dances the Liquefac onist Jig, ending with a
grotesque can-can to the tune of She Started a Heat Wave.
‘Let it be! And no holes barred!!!’
Couples a ached to baroque harnesses with ar ﬁcial wings copulate in the
air, screaming like magpies.
Aerialists ejaculate each other in space with one sure touch.
Equilibrists suck each other oﬀ de ly, balanced on perilous poles and chairs
lted over the void. A warm wind brings the smell of rivers and jungle from misty
depths.Boys by the hundred plummet through the roof, quivering and kicking at the
end of ropes. The boys hang at diﬀerent levels, some near the ceiling and others
a few inches oﬀ the ﬂoor. Exquisite Balinese and Malays, Mexican Indians with
ﬁerce innocent faces and bright red gums. Negroes (teeth, ﬁngers, toe nails and
pubic hair gilded), Japanese boys smooth and white as China, Ti an-haired
Venetian lads, Americans with blond or black curls falling across the forehead (the
guests tenderly shove it back), sulky blond Pollacks with animal brown eyes, Arab
and Spanish street boys, Austrian boys pink and delicate with a faint shadow of
blond pubic hair, sneering German youths with bright eyes scream ‘Heil Hitler!’ as
the trap falls under them. Sollubis shit and whimper.
Mr. Rich-and-Vulgar chews his Havana lewd and nasty, sprawled on a Florida
beach surrounded by simpering blond catamites:
‘This ci zen have a Latah he import from Indo-China. He ﬁgure to hang the
Latah and send a Xmas TV short to his friends. So he ﬁx up two ropes – one
gimmicked to stretch, the other the real McCoy. But that Latah get up in feud
state and put on his Santa Claus suit and make with the switcheroo. Come the
dawning. The ci zen put one rope on and the Latah, going along the way Latahs
will, put on the other. When the traps are down the ci zen hang for real and the
Latah stand with the carny-rubber stretch rope. Well, the Latah imitate every
twitch and spasm. Come three times.
‘Smart young Latah keep his eye on the ball. I got him working in one of my
plants as an expeditor.’
Aztec priests strip blue feather robe from the Naked Youth. They bend him
back over a limestone altar, ﬁt a crystal skull over his head, securing the two
hemispheres back and front with crystal screws. A waterfall pour over the skull
snapping the boy’s neck. He ejaculate in a rainbow against the rising sun.
Sharp protein odor of semen ﬁlls the air. The guests run hands over twitching
boys, suck their cocks, hang on their backs like vampires.
Naked lifeguards carry in iron-lungs full of paralyzed youths.
Blind boys grope out of huge pies, deteriorated schizophrenics pop from
under a rubber cunt, boys with horrible skin diseases rise from a black pond
(sluggish fish nibble yellow turds on the surface).
A man with white e and dress shirt, naked from the waist down except for
black garters, talks to the Queen Bee in elegant tones. (Queen Bees are old
women who surround themselves with fairies to form a ‘swarm.’ It is a sinister
Mexican practice.)
‘But where is the statuary?’ He talks out of one side of his face, the other is
twisted by the Torture of a Million Mirrors. He masturbates wildly. The Queen
Bee continues the conversation, notices nothing.
Couches, chairs, the whole ﬂoor begins to vibrate, shaking the guests to
blurred grey ghosts shrieking in cockbound agony.
Two boys jacking oﬀ under railroad bridge. The train shakes through their
bodies, ejaculate them, fades with distant whistle. Frogs croak. The boys washsemen off lean brown stomachs.
Train compartment: two sick young junkies on their way to Lexington tear
their pants down in convulsions of lust. One of them soaps his cock and works it
up the other’s ass with a corkscrew mo on. ‘Jeeeeeeeeeeeeesus!’ Both ejaculate
at once standing up. They move away from each other and pull up their pants.
‘Old croaker in Marshall writes for tincture and sweet oil.’
‘The piles of an aged mother shriek out raw and bleeding for the Black Shit …
Doc, suppose it was your mother, rimmed by resident leaches, squirming around
so nasty.… De-active that pelvis, mom, you disgust me already.’
‘Let’s stop over and make him for an RX.’
The train tears on through the smoky, neon-lighted June night.
Pictures of men and women, boys and girls, animals, ﬁsh, birds, the copula ng
rhythm of the universe ﬂows through the room, a great blue de of life. Vibra ng,
soundless hum of deep forest – sudden quiet of ci es when the junky copes. A
moment of s llness and wonder. Even the Commuter buzzes clogged lines of
cholesterol for contact.
Hassan shrieks out: ‘This is your doing, A.J.! You poopa my party!’
A.J. looks at him, face remote as limestone: ‘Uppa your ass, you liquefying
gook.’
A horde of lust-mad American women rush in. Dripping cunts, from farm and
dude ranch, factory, brothel, country club, penthouse and suburb, motel and
yacht and cocktail bar, strip oﬀ riding clothes, ski togs, evening dresses, levis, tea
gowns, print dresses, slacks, bathing suits and kimonos. They scream and yipe and
howl, leap on the guests like bitch dogs in heat with rabies. They claw at the
hanged boys shrieking: ‘You fairy! You bastard! Fuck me! Fuck me! Fuck me!’ The
guests flee screaming, dodge among the hanged boys, overturn iron lungs.
A.J.: ‘Call out my Sweitzers, God damn it! Guard me from these she-foxes!’
Mr. Hyslop, A.J.’s secretary, looks up from his comic book: ‘The Sweitzers
liquefy already.’
(Liquefac on involves protein cleavage and reduc on to liquid which is
absorbed into someone else’s protoplasmic being. Hassan, a notorious
liquefactionist, is probably the beneficiary in this case.)
A.J.: ‘Gold-bricking cocksuckers! Where’s a man without his Sweitzers? Our
backs are to the wall, gentlemen. Our very cocks at stake. Stand by to resist
boarders, Mr. Hyslop, and issue short arms to the men.’
A.J. whips out a cutlass and begins decapita ng the American Girls. He sings
lustily:
Fifteen men on the dead man’s chest
Yo Ho Ho and a bottle of rum.
Drink and the devil had done for the rest
Yo Ho Ho and a bottle of rum.
Mr. Hyslop, bored and resigned: ‘Oh Gawd! He’s at it again.’ He waves theJolly Roger listlessly.
A.J., surrounded and ﬁgh ng against overwhelming odds, throws back his
head and makes with the hog-call. Immediately a thousand ru ng Eskimos pour
in grun ng and squealing, faces tumescent, eyes hot and red, lips purple, fall on
the American women.
(Eskimos have a ru ng season when the tribes meet in short Summer to
disport themselves in orgies. Their faces swell and lips turn purple.)
A House Dick with cigar two feet long s cks his head in through the wall:
‘Have you got a menagerie in here?’
Hassan wrings his hands: ‘A shambles! A ﬁlthy shambles! By Allah I never see
anything so downright nasty!’
He whirls on A.J. who is si ng on a sea chest, parrot on shoulder, patch over
one eye, drinking rum from a tankard. He scans the horizon with a huge brass
telescope.
Hassan: ‘You cheap Factualist bitch! Go and never darken my rumpus room
again!’
Campus of Interzone University
Donkeys, camels, llamas, rickshaws, carts of merchandise pushed by straining
boys, eyes protruding like strangled tongues – throbbing red with animal hate.
Herds of sheep and goats and long-horned ca le pass between the students and
the lecture pla orm. The students sit around on rusty park benches, limestone
blocks, outhouse seats, packing crates, oil drums, stumps, dusty leather hassacks,
moldy gym mats. They wear Levis – djellabas … hose and doublet – drink corn
from mason jars, coffee from tin cans, smoke gage (marijuana) in cigarettes made
of wrapping paper and lo ery ckets … shoot junk with a safety pin and dropper,
study racing forms, comic books, Mayan codices.…
The Professor arrives on a bicycle carrying a string of bull heads. He mounts
the platform holding his back (crane swings a bellowing cow over his head).
PROF: ‘Fucked by the Sultan’s Army last night. I have dislocate the back in the
service of my resident queen.… Can’t evict that old gash. Need a licensed brain
electrician disconnect her synapse by synapse and a surgical bailiﬀ put her guts
out on the sidewalk. When Ma move in on a boy bag and buggage he play Hell
dispossess that Gold Star Boarder.…’
He looks at the bull heads humming tunes from the 1920s. ‘The nostalgia ﬁt is
on me boys and will out willy silly … boys walk down the carny Midway ea ng
pink spun sugar … goose each other at the peep show … jack oﬀ in the Ferris
Wheel throw sperm at the moon rising red and smoky over the foundries across
the river. A Nigra hangs from a co on wood in front of The Old Court House …
whimpering women catch his sperm in vaginal teeth.…(Husband looks at the li le
changeling with narrow eyes the color of a faded grey ﬂannel shirt.…“Doc, I
suspect it to be a Nigra.”The Doctor shrugs: ‘It’s the Old Army Game, son. Pea under the shell … Now
you see it now you don’t.…’)
‘And Doc Parker in the back room in his drugstore shoo ng horse heroin three
grains a jolt – “Tonic,” he mutters. “It’s always Spring.”
‘“Hands” Benson Town Pervert has took up a querencia in the school privy.
(Querencia is bullﬁght term.… The bull will ﬁnd a spot in the ring he likes and stay
there and the bullﬁghter has to go in and meet the bull on his bull terms or coax
him out – one or the other.) Sheriﬀ A.Q. “Flat” Larsen say, “Some way we go a
lure him outa that querencia.”… And Old Ma Lo e sleep ten years with a dead
daughter and home cured too, wakes shivering in the East Texas dawn … vultures
out over the black swamp water and cypress stumps.…
‘And now gentlemen – I trust there are no transves tes present – he he – and
you are all gentlemen by act of Congress it being only remain to establish you
male humans, posi vely no Transi onals in either direc on will be allowed in this
decent hall. Gentlemen, present short arms. Now you have all been briefed on
the importance of keeping your weapons well lubricated and ready for any ac on
flank or rear guard.’
STUDENTS: ‘Hear! Hear!’ They wearily unbu on their ﬂies. One of them
brandishes a huge erection.
PROF: ‘And now, gentlemen, where was I? Oh yes, Ma Lo e … She wake
shivering in the gentle pink dawn, pink as the candles on a li le girl’s birthday
cake, pink as spun sugar, pink as a sea-shell, pink as a cock pulsing in a red fucking
light.… Ma Lo e … hurumph … if this prolixity be not cut short will succumb to
the infirmities of age and join her daughter in formaldehyde.
‘The Rime of the Ancient Mariner by Coleridge the poet … I should like to call
your attention to the symbolism of the Ancient Mariner himself.’
STUDENTS: ‘Himself the man says.’
‘Thereby call attention to his own unappetizing person.’
‘That wasn’t a nice thing to do, Teach.’
A hundred juvenile delinquents … switch blades clicking like teeth move at
him.
PROF: ‘Oh Lansakes!’ He tries desperately to disguise himself as an old woman
with high black shoes and umbrella.…‘If it wasn’t for my lumbago can’t rightly
bend over I’d turn them oﬀering my Sugar Bum the way baboons do it.… If a
weaker baboon be a acked by a stronger baboon the weaker baboon will either
(a) present his hrump fanny I believe is the word, gentlemen, heh heh for passive
intercourse or (b) if he is a diﬀerent type baboon more extrovert and well-
adjusted, lead an attack on an even weaker baboon if he can find one.’
Dilapidated Diseuse in 1920 clothes like she sleep in them ever since
undulates across dreary neonlighted Chicago street … dead weight of the Dear
Dead Days hanging in the air like an earthbound ghost. Diseuse: (canned heat
tenor). ‘Find the weakest baboon.’
Fron er saloon: Fag Baboon dressed in li le girl blue dress sings in resignedvoice to tune of Alice Blue Gown: ‘I’m the weakest baboon of them all.’
A freight train separates the Prof. from the juveniles.… When the train passes
they have fat stomachs and responsible jobs.…
STUDENTS: ‘We want Lottie!’
PROF: ‘That was in another country, gentlemen.… As I was saying before I was
so rudely interrupted by one of my mul ple personali es … troublesome li le
beasts … consider the Ancient Mariner without curare, lasso, bulbocapnine or
straitjacket, albeit able to capture and hold a live audience.… What is his hrump
gimmick? He he he he … He does not, like so-called ar sts at this me, stop just
anybody thereby inﬂic ng unsent for boredom and working random hardship.…
He stops those who cannot choose but hear owing to already exis ng rela on
between The Mariner (however ancient) and the uh Wedding Guest.…
‘What the Mariner actually says is not important.… He may be rambling,
irrelevant, even crude and rampant senile. But something happens to the
Wedding Guest like happens in psychoanalysis when it happens if it happens. If I
may be permi ed a slight digression … an analyst of my acquaintance does all the
talking – pa ents listen pa ently or not … He reminiscences … tells dirty jokes (old
ones) achieves counterpoints of idiocy undreamed of by The Country Clerk. He is
illustrating at some length that nothing can ever be accomplished on the verbal
level.… He arrived at this method through observing that The Listener – The
Analyst – was not reading the mind of the pa ent.… The pa ent – The Talker –
was reading his mind.… That is the pa ent has ESP awareness of the analyst’s
dreams and schemes whereas the analyst contacts the pa ent strictly from front
brain.… Many agents use this approach – they are notoriously long-winded bores
and bad listeners.…
‘Gentlemen I will slop a pearl: You can find out more about someone by talking
than by listening.’
Pigs rush up and the Prof. pours buckets of pearls into a trough.…
‘I am not worthy to eat his feet,’ says the fattest hog of them all.
‘Clay anyhoo.’
A.J.’s Annual Party
A.J. turns to the guests. ‘Cunts, pricks, fence straddlers, tonight I give you – that
interna onal-known impressario of blue movies and short-wave TV, the one, the
only, The Great Slashtubitch!’
He points to a red velvet curtain sixty feet high. Lightning rends the curtain
from top to bo om. The Great Slashtubitch stands revealed. His face is immense,
immobile like a Chimu funeral urn. He wears full evening dress, blue cape and blue
monocle. Huge grey eyes with ny black pupils that seem to spit needles. (Only
the Coordinate Factulist can meet his gaze.) When he is angered the charge of it
will blow his monocle across the room. Many an ill-starred actor has felt the icy
blast of Slashtubitch’s displeasure: ‘Get out of my studio, you cheap four-ﬂushingham! Did you think to pass a counterfeit orgasm on me! THE GREAT SLASHTUBITCH! I
could tell if you come by regard the beeg toe. Idiot! Mindless scum!! Insolent
baggage!!! Go peddle thy ass and know that it takes sincerity and art, and
devo on, to work for Slashtubitch. Not shoddy trickery, dubbed gasps, rubber
turds and vials of milk concealed in the ear and shots of Yohimbine sneaked in the
wings.’ (Yohimbine, derived from the bark of a tree growing in Central Africa, is
the safest and most eﬃcient aphrodisiac. It operates by dila ng the blood vessels
on the surface of the skin, particularly in the genital area.)
Slashtubitch ejects his monocle. It sails out of sight, returns like a boomerang
into his eye. He piroue es and disappears in a blue mist, cold as liquid air …
fadeout.…
On Screen. Red-haired, green-eyed boy, white skin with a few freckles …
kissing a thin brune e girl in slacks. Clothes and hairdo suggest existen alist bars
of all the world ci es. They are seated on low bed covered in white silk. The girl
opens his pants with gentle ﬁngers and pulls out his cock which is small and very
hard. A drop of lubricant gleams at its p like a pearl. She caresses the crown
gently: ‘Strip, Johnny.’ He takes oﬀ his clothes with swi sure movements and
stands naked before her, his cock pulsing. She makes a mo on for him to turn
around and he piroue es across the ﬂoor parodying a model, hand on hip. She
takes oﬀ her shirt. Her breasts are high and small with erect nipples. She slips oﬀ
her underpants. Her pubic hairs are black and shiny. He sits down beside her and
reaches for her breast. She stops his hands.
‘Darling, I want to rim you,’ she whispers.
‘No. Not now.’
‘Please, I want to.’
‘Well, all right. I’ll go wash my ass.’
‘No, I’ll wash it.’
‘Aw shucks now, it ain’t dirty.’
‘Yes it is. Come on now, Johnny boy.’
She leads him into the bathroom. ‘All right, get down.’ He gets down on his
knees and leans forward, with his chin on the bath mat. ‘Allah,’ he says. He looks
back and grins at her. She washes his ass with soap and hot water s cking her
finger up it.
‘Does that hurt?’
‘Noooooooooo.’
‘Come along, baby.’ She leads the way into the bedroom. He lies down on his
back and throws his legs back over his head, clasping elbows behind his knees.
She kneel down and caress the backs of his thighs, his balls, running her ﬁngers
down the perennial divide. She push his cheeks apart, lean down and begin licking
the anus, moving her head in a slow circle. She push at the side of the asshole,
licking deeper and deeper. He close his eyes and squirm. She lick up the perennial
divide. His small, ght balls.… A great pearl stands out on the p of his
circumcised cock. Her mouth closes over the crown. She suck rhythmically up anddown, pausing on the up stroke and moving her head around in a circle. Her hand
plays gently with his balls, slide down and middle ﬁnger up his ass. As she suck
down toward the root of his cock she ckle his prostate mockingly. He grin and
fart. She is sucking his cock now in a frenzy. His body begins to contract, pulling
up toward his chin. Each me the contrac on is longer. ‘Wheeeeeeee!’ the boy
yell, every muscle tense, his whole body strain to empty through his cock. She
drinks his jissom which ﬁlls her mouth in great hot spurts. He lets his feet ﬂop
back onto the bed. He arches his back and yawns.
Mary is strapping on a rubber penis: ‘Steely Dan III from Yokohama,’ she says,
caressing the shaft. Milk spurts across the room.
‘Be sure that milk is pasteurized. Don’t go giving me some kinda awful cow
disease like anthrax or glanders or aftosa.…’
‘When I was a transves te Liz in Chi used to work as an exterminator. Make
advances to pre y boys for the thrill of being beaten as a man. Later I catch this
one kid, overpower him with supersonic judo I learned from an old Lesbian Zen
monk. I e him up, strip oﬀ his clothes with a razor and fuck him with Steely Dan
I. He is so relieved I don’t castrate him literal he come all over my bedbug spray.’
‘He was torn in two by a bull dike. Most terriﬁc vaginal grip I ever
experienced. She could cave in a lead pipe. It was one of her parlor tricks.’
‘And Steely Dan II?’
‘Chewed to bits by a famished candiru in the Upper Baboons-asshole. And
don’t say “Wheeeeeeee!” this time.’
‘Why not? It’s real boyish.’
‘Barefoot boy, check thy bullheads with the madame.’
He looks at the ceiling, hands behind his head, cock pulsing. ‘So what shall I
do? Can’t shit with that dingus up me. I wonder is it possible to laugh and come at
the same me? I recall, during the war, at the Jockey Club in Cairo, me and my
asshole buddy, Lu, both gentlemen by act of Congress … nothing else could have
done such a thing to either of us.… So we got laughing so hard we piss all over
ourselves and the waiter say: “You bloody hash-heads, get out of here!” I mean,
if I can laugh the piss out of me I should be able to laugh out jissom. So tell me
something real funny when I start coming. You can tell by certain premonitory
quiverings of the prostate gland.…’
She puts on a record, metallic cocaine be-bop. She greases the dingus, shoves
the boy’s legs over his head and works it up his ass with a series of corkscrew
movements of her ﬂuid hips. She moves in a slow circle, revolving on the axis of
the sha . She rubs her hard nipples across his chest. She kisses him on the neck
and chin and eyes. He runs his hands down her back to her bu ocks, pulling her
into his ass. She revolves faster, faster. His body jerks and writhes in convulsive
spasms. ‘Hurry up, please,’ she says. ‘The milk is ge ng cold.’ He does not hear.
She presses her mouth against his. Their faces run together. His sperm hits her
breast with light, hot licks.
Mark is standing in the doorway. He wears a turtle-neck black sweater. Cold,handsome, narcissis c face. Green eyes and black hair. He looks at Johnny with a
slight sneer, his head on one side, hands on his jacket pockets, a graceful hoodlum
ballet. He jerk his head and Johnny walk ahead of him into the bedroom. Mary
follow. ‘All right, boys,’ she says, sitting down naked on a pink silk dais overlooking
the bed. ‘Get with it!’
Mark begin to undress with ﬂuid movements, hip rolls, squirm out of his
turtle-neck sweater revealing his beau ful white torso in a mocking belly dance.
Johnny deadpan, face frozen, breath quick, lips dry, remove his clothes and drop
them on the ﬂoor. Mark lets his shorts fall on one foot. He kick like a chorus-girl,
sending the shorts across the room. Now he stand naked, his cock s ﬀ, straining
up and out. He run slow eyes over Johnny’s body. He smile and lick his lips.
Mark drop on one knee, pulling Johnny across his back by one arm. He stand
up and throw him six feet onto the bed. Johnny land on his back and bounce.
Mark jump up and grab Johnny’s ankles, throw his legs over his head. Mark’s lips
are drawn back in a ght snarl. ‘All right, Johnny boy.’ He contracts his body, slow
and steady as an oiled machine, push his cock up Johnny’s ass. Johnny give a great
sigh, squirming in ecstasy. Mark hitches his hands behind Johnny’s shoulders,
pulling him down onto his cock which is buried to the hilt in Johnny’s ass. Great
whistles through his teeth. Johnny screams like a bird. Mark is rubbing his face
against Johnny’s, snarl gone, face innocent and boyish as his whole liquid being
spurt into Johnny’s quivering body.
A train roar through him whistle blowing … boat whistle, foghorn, sky rocket
burst over oily lagoons … penny arcade open in a maze of dirty pictures …
ceremonial cannon boom in the harbor … a scream shoots down a white hospital
corridor … out along a wide dusty street between palm trees, whistles out across
the desert like a bullet (vulture wings husk in the dry air), a thousand boys come at
once in out-houses, bleak public school toilets, a cs, basements, treehouses,
Ferris wheels, deserted houses, limestone caves, rowboats, garages, barns, rubbly
windy city outskirts behind mud walls (smell of dried excrement) … black dust
blowing over lean copper bodies … ragged pants dropped to cracked bleeding
bare feet … (place where vultures ﬁght over ﬁsh heads) … by jungle lagoons,
vicious fish snap at white sperm floating on black water, sand flies bite the copper
ass, howler monkeys like wind in the trees (a land of great brown rivers where
whole trees ﬂoat, bright colored snakes in the branches, pensive lemurs watch
the shore with sad eyes), a red plane traces arabesques in blue substance of sky, a
ra lesnake strike, a cobra rear, spread, spit white venom, pearl and opal chips fall
in a slow silent rain through air clear as glycerine. Time jump like a broken
typewriter, the boys are old men, young hips quivering and twitching in boy-
spasms go slack and ﬂabby, draped over an outhouse seat, a park bench, a stone
wall in Spanish sunlight, a sagging furnished room bed (outside red brick slum in
clear winter sunlight) … twitching and shivering in dirty underwear, probing for a
vein in the junk-sick morning, in an Arab café muttering and slobbering – the Arabs
whisper ‘Medjoub’ and edge away – (a Medjoub is a special sort of religiousMoslem luna c … o en epilep c among other disorders). ‘The Moslems must
have blood and jissom.… See, see where Christ’s blood streams in the
spermament,’ howls the Medjoub.… He stand up screaming and black blood spurt
solid from his last erec on, a pale white statue standing there, as if he had
stepped whole across the Great Fence, climbed it innocent and calm as a boy
climb the fence to ﬁsh in the forbidden pond – in a few seconds he catch a huge
ca ish – The Old Man will rush out of a li le black hut cursing, with a pitchfork
and the boy run laughing across the Missouri ﬁeld – he ﬁnd a beau ful pink
arrowhead and snatch it up as he runs with a ﬂowing swoop of young bone and
muscle – (his bones blend into the ﬁelds, he lies dead by the wooden fence a
shotgun by his side, blood on frozen red clap seeps into the winter stubble of
Georgia).… The ca ish billows out behind him.… He come to the fence and throw
the ca ish over into blood-streaked grass … the ﬁsh lies squirming and squawking
– vaults the fence. He snatch up the ca ish and disappear up a ﬂint-studded red
clay road between oaks and persimmons dropping red-brown leaves in a windy
fall sunset, green and dripping in summer dawn, black against a clear winter day …
the Old Man scream curses a er him … his teeth ﬂy from his mouth and whistle
over the boy’s head, he strain forward, his neckcords ght as steel hoops, black
blood spurt in one solid piece over the fence and he fall a fleshless mummy by the
fever grass. Thorns grow through his ribs, the windows break in his hut, dusty
glass-slivers in black pu y – rats run over the ﬂoor and boys jack oﬀ in the dark
musty bedroom on summer a ernoons and eat berries that grow from his body
and bones, mouths smeared with purple-red juices.…
The old junky has found a vein … blood blossoms in the dropper like a Chinese
ﬂower.…he push home the heroin and the boy who jacked oﬀ ﬁ y years ago
shine immaculate through the ravaged ﬂesh, ﬁll the outhouse with the sweet
nutty smell of young male lust.…
How many years threaded on a needle of blood? Hands slack on lap he sit
looking out at the winter dawn with the cancelled eyes of junk. The old queer
squirm on a limestone bench in Chapultepec Park as Indian adolescents walk by,
arms around each other’s necks and ribs, straining his dying ﬂesh to occupy young
buttocks and thighs, tight balls and spurting cocks.
Mark and Johnny sit facing each other in a vibra ng chair, Johnny impaled on
Mark’s cock.
‘All set, Johnny?’
‘Turn it on.’
Mark ﬂips the switch and the chair vibrate.… Mark lt his head looking up at
Johnny, his face remote, eyes cool and mocking on Johnny’s face.… Johnny
scream and whimper.… His face disintegrates as if melted from within.… Johnny
scream like a mandrake, black out as his sperm spurt, slump against Mark’s body
an angel on the nod. Mark pat Johnny’s shoulder absently.… Room like
gymnasium.… The ﬂoor is foam rubber, covered in white silk.… One wall is glass.…
The rising sun ﬁlls the room with pink light. Johnny is led in, hands ed, betweenMary and Mark. Johnny sees the gallows and sags with a great ‘Ohhhhhhhhhhh!’
his chin pulling down towards his cock, his legs bending at the knees. Sperm
spurts, arching almost ver cal in front of his face. Mark and Mary are suddenly
impa ent and hot.… They push Johnny forward onto the gallows pla orm
covered with moldy jockstraps and sweat shirts. Mark is adjusting the noose.
‘Well, here you go.’ Mark starts to push Johnny off the platform.
Mary: ‘No, let me.’ She locks her hands behind Johnny’s bu ocks, puts her
forehead against him, smiling into his eyes she moves back, pulling him oﬀ the
pla orm into space.… His face swells with blood.… Mark reaches up with one
lithe movement and snaps Johnny’s neck … sound like a s ck broken in wet
towels. A shudder runs down Johnny’s body … one foot ﬂu ers like a trapped
bird.… Mark has draped himself over a swing and mimics Johnny’s twitches, closes
his eyes and s cks his tongue out.… Johnny’s cock springs up and Mary guides it
up her cunt, writhing against him in a fluid belly dance, groaning and shrieking with
delight … sweat pours down her body, hair hangs over her face in wet strands.
‘Cut him down, Mark,’ she screams. Mark reaches over with a snap knife and cuts
the rope, catching Johnny as he falls, easing him onto his back with Mary s ll
impaled and writhing.… She bites away Johnny’s lips and nose and sucks out his
eyes with a pop.… She tears oﬀ great hunks of cheek.… Now she lunches on his
prick.… Mark walks over to her and she looks up from Johnny’s half-eaten
genitals, her face covered with blood, eyes phosphorescent.… Mark puts his foot
on her shoulder and kicks her over on her back.… He leaps on her, fucking her
insanely.…they roll from one end of the room to the other, pinwheel end-over-
end and leap high in the air like great hooked fish.
‘Let me hang you, Mark.… Let me hang you.… Please, Mark, let me hang you!’
‘Sure baby.’ He pulls her brutally to her feet and pins her hands behind her.
‘No, Mark!! No! No! No,’ she screams, shi ng and pissing in terror as he
drags her to the pla orm. He leaves her ed on the pla orm in a pile of old used
condoms, while he adjusts the rope across the room … and comes back carrying
the noose on a silver tray. He jerks her to her feet and ghtens the noose. He
s cks his cock up her and waltzes around the pla orm and oﬀ into space
swinging in a great arc.…‘Wheeeeee!’ he screams, turning into Johnny. Her neck
snaps. A great ﬂuid wave undulates through her body. Johnny drops to the ﬂoor
and stands poised and alert like a young animal.
He leaps about the room. With a scream of longing that sha ers the glass
wall he leaps out into space. Masturba ng end-over-end, three thousand feet
down, his sperm floating beside him, he screams all the way against the shattering
blue of the sky, the rising sun burning over his body like gasoline, down past great
oaks and persimmons, swamp cypress and mahogany, to sha er in liquid relief in
a ruined square paved with limestone. Weeds and vines grow between the
stones, and rusty iron bolts three feet thick penetrate the white stone, stain it
shit-brown of rust.
Johnny dowses Mary with gasoline from an obscene Chimu jar of white jade.… He anoints his own body.… They embrace, fall to the ﬂoor and roll under a
great magnifying glass set in the roof … burst into ﬂame with a cry that sha ers
the glass wall, roll into space, fucking and screaming through the air, burst in
blood and ﬂames and soot on brown rocks under a desert sun. Johnny leaps
about the room in agony. With a scream that sha ers the glass wall he stands
spreadeagle to the rising sun, blood spur ng out his cock … a white marble god,
he plummets through epilep c explosions into the old Medjoub writhe in shit and
rubbish by a mud wall under a sun that scar and grab the ﬂesh into goose-
pimples.… He is a boy sleeping against the mosque wall, ejaculates wet dreaming
into a thousand cunts pink and smooth as sea shells, feeling the delight of prickly
pubic hairs slide up his cock.
John and Mary in hotel room (music of East St. Louis Toodleoo). Warm spring
wind blows faded pink curtains in through open window.… Frogs croak in vacant
lots where corn grows and boys catch li le green garter snakes under broken
limestone stelae stained with shit and threaded with rusty barbed wire.…
Neon – chlorophyll green, purple, orange – flashes on and off.
Johnny extracts a candiru from Mary’s cunt with his calipers.… He drops it into a
bo le of mescal where it turns into a Maguey worm.… He gives her a douche of
jungle bone-so ener, her vaginal teeth ﬂow out mixed with blood and cysts.…
Her cunt shines fresh and sweet as spring grass.… Johnny licks Mary’s cunt, slow
at ﬁrst, with rising excitement parts the lips and licks inside feeling the prickle of
pubic hairs on his tumescent tongue.… Arms thrown back, breasts poin ng
straight up, Mary lies transﬁxed with neon nails.… Johnny moves up her body, his
cock with a shining opal of lubricant at the open slit, slides through her pubic hairs
and enters her cunt to the hilt, drawn in by a suc on of hungry ﬂesh.… His face
swells with blood, green lights burst behind his eyes and he falls with a scenic
railway through screaming girls.…
Damp hairs on the back of his balls dry to grass in the warm spring wind. High
jungle valley, vines creep in the window. Johnny’s cock swells, great rank buds
burst out. A long tuber root creeps from Mary’s cunt, feels for the earth. The
bodies disintegrate in green explosions. The hut falls in ruins of broken stone. The
boy is a limestone statue, a plant sprou ng from his cock, lips parted in the half-
smile of a junky on the nod.
The Beagle has stashed the heroin in a lottery ticket.
One more shot – tomorrow the cure.
The way is long. Hard-ons and bring downs are frequent.
It was a long me over the stony reg to the oasis of date palms where Arab
boys shit in the well and rock n’ roll across the sands of muscle beach ea ng hot-
dogs and spitting out gold teeth in nuggets.
Toothless and strictly from the long hunger, ribs you could wash your ﬁlthy
overalls on, that corrugate, they quiver down from the outrigger in Easter Islandand stalk ashore on legs s ﬀ and bri le as s lts … they nod in club windows …
fallen into the fat of lack-need to sell a slim body.
The date palms have died of meet lack, the well ﬁlled with dried shit and
mosaic of a thousand newspapers: ‘Russia denies … The Home Secretary views
with pathic alarm … The trap was sprung at 12:02. At 12:30 the doctor went out
to eat oysters, returned at 2:00 to clap the hanged man jovially on the back.
“What! Aren’t you dead yet? Guess I’ll have to pull your leg. Haw Haw! Can’t let
you choke at this rate – I’d get a warning from the President. And what a disgrace
if the dead wagon cart you out alive. My balls would drop off with the shame of it
and I apprenticed myself to an experienced ox. One two three pull.”’
The sail plane falls silent as erec on, silent as greased glass broken by the
young thief with old-women hands and cancelled eyes of junk.… In a noiseless
explosion he penetrates the broken house, stepping over the greased crystals, a
clock cks loud in the kitchen, hot air ruﬄes his hair, his head disintegrates in a
heavy duck load.… The Old Man ﬂips out a red shell and piroue es around his
shotgun. ‘Aw, shucks, fellers, tweren’t nothing.… Fish in the barrel.… Money in the
bank … round-heeled boy, one greased shot brain goose and he ﬂop in an
obscene position.… Can you hear me from where you are, boy?
‘I was young myself once and heard the siren call of easy money and women
and ght boy-ass and lands sake don’t get my blood up I am subject to tell a tale
make your cock stand up and yipe for the pink pearly way of young cunt or the
lovely brown mucous-covered palpita ng tune of the young boy-ass play your
cock like a recorder … and when you hit the prostate pearl sharp diamonds gather
in the golden lad balls inexorable as a kidney stone.… Sorry I had to kill you.… The
old grey mare ain’t what she used to be.… Can’t run down an audience … got to
bring down that house on the wing, run or sit.… Like an old lion took bad with
cavi es he need that Amident toothpaste keep a feller bi ng fresh at all mes.…
Them old lions shit suet turn boyeater.… And who can blame them, boys being so
sweet so cold so fair in St. James Inﬁrmary Now, son, don’t you get rigor mor s
on me. Show respect for the aging prick.… You may be a tedious old fuck yourself
some day.… Oh, uh; I guess not.… You have, like Housman’s barefoot shameless
catamite The Congealed Shropshire Ingenue set your ﬂeet foot on the silo of
change.… But you can’t kill those Shropshire boys … been hanged so o en he
resist it like a gonococcus half castrate with pencillin rallies to a hideous strength
and multiples geometric.… So leave us cast a vote for decent acqui al and put an
end to those beastly exhibitions for which the sheriff levy a pound of flesh.’
Sheriﬀ: ‘I’ll lower his pants for a pound, folks. Step right up. A serious and
scien ﬁc exhibit concerning the locality of the Life Center. This character has
nine inches, ladies and gentlemen, measure them yourself inside. Only one pound,
one queer three dollar bill to see a young boy come three mes at least – I never
demean myself to process a eunuch – completely against his will. When his neck
snaps sharp, this character will shit-sure come to rhythmic a en on and spurt it
out all over you.’The boy stands on the trap shi ing his weight from one leg to the other:
‘Gawd! What a boy hasta put up with in this business. Sure as shit some horrible
old character get physical.’
Trap falls, rope sings like wind in wire, neck snaps loud and clear as a Chinese
gong.
The boy cuts himself down with a switch-blade, chases a screaming fag down
the midway. The dives through the glass of a penny arcade peep-show and
rims a grinning Negro. Fadeout.
(Mary, Johnny and Mark take a bow with the ropes around their necks. They
are not as young as they appear in the Blue Movies.… They look red and
petulant.)
Meeting of International Conference of Technological
Psychiatry
Doctor ‘Fingers’ Schafer, the Lobotomy Kid, rises and turns on the Conferents the
cold blue blast of his gaze:
‘Gentlemen, the human nervous system can be reduced to a compact and
abbreviated spinal column. The brain, front, middle and rear must follow the
adenoid, the wisdom tooth, the appendix.… I give you my Master Work: The
Complete All American De-anxietized Man.…’
Blast of trumpets: The Man is carried in naked by two Negro Bearers who
drop him on the pla orm with bes al, sneering brutality.… The Man wriggles.…
His ﬂesh turns to viscid, transparent jelly that dri s away in green mist, unveiling a
monster black cen pede. Waves of unknown stench ﬁll the room, searing the
lungs, grabbing the stomach.…
Schafer wrings his hands sobbing: ‘Clarence!! How can you do this to me??
Ingrates!! Every one of them ingrates!!’
The Conferents start back muttering in dismay:
‘I’m afraid Schafer had gone a bit too far.…’
‘I sounded a word of warning.…’
‘Brilliant chap Schafer … but.…’
‘Man will do anything for publicity.…’
‘Gentlemen, this unspeakable and in every sense illegi mate child of Doctor
Schafer’s perverted brain must not see the light.… Our duty to the human race is
clear.…’
‘Man he done seen the light,’ said one of the Negro Bearers.
‘We must stomp out the Un-American cri ah,’ says a fat, frog-faced Southern
doctor who has been drinking corn out of a mason jar. He advances drunkenly,
then halts, appalled by the formidable size and menacing aspect of the cen pede.
…
‘Fetch gasoline!’ he bellows. ‘We go a burn the son of a bitch like an uppity
Nigra!’‘I’m not s cking my neck out, me,’ says a cool hip young doctor high on
LSD25.…‘Why a smart D.A. could …’
Fadeout. ‘Order in The Court!’
D.A.: ‘Gentlemen of the jury, these “learned gentlemen” claim that the
innocent human creature they have so wantonly slain suddenly turned himself
into a huge black cen pede and it was “their duty to the human race” to destroy
this monster before it could, by any means at its disposal, perpetrate its kind.…
‘Are we to gulp down this ssue of horse shit? Are we to take these glib lies
like a greased and nameless asshole? Where is this wondrous centipede?
‘“We have destroyed it,” they say smugly.… And I would like to remind you,
Gentlemen and Hermaphrodites of the Jury, that this Great Beast’ – he points to
Doctor Schafer – ‘has, on several previous occasions, appeared in this court
charged with the unspeakable crime of brain rape.… In plain English’ – he pounds
the rail of the jury box, his voice rises to a scream – ‘in plain English, Gentlemen,
forcible lobotomy.…’
The jury gasps.… One dies of a heart a ack.… Three fall to the ﬂoor writhing
in orgasms of prurience.…
The D.A. points drama cally: ‘He it is.… He and no other who has reduced
whole provinces of our fair land to a state bordering on the far side of idiocy.…
He it is who has ﬁlled great warehouses with row on row, er on er of helpless
creatures who must have their every want a ended.…“The Drones” he calls them
with a cynical leer of pure educated evil.… Gentlemen, I say to you that the
wanton murder of Clarence Cowie must not go unavenged: This foul crime
shrieks like a wounded for justice at least!’
The centipede is rushing about in agitation.
‘Man, that mother fucker’s hungry,’ screams one of the Bearers.
‘I’m getting out of here, me.’
A wave of electric horror sweeps through the Conferents.… They storm the
exits screaming and clawing.…
The Market
Panorama of the City of Interzone. Opening bars of East St. Louis Toodleoo … at
times loud and clear then faint and intermittent like music down a windy street.…
The room seems to shake and vibrate with mo on. The blood and substance
of many races, Negro, Polynesian, Mountain Mongol, Desert Nomad, Polyglot
Near East, Indian – races as yet unconceived and unborn, combina ons not yet
realized pass through your body. Migra ons, incredible journeys through deserts
and jungles and mountains (stasis and death in closed mountain valleys where
plants grow out of genitals, vast crustaceans hatch inside and break the shell of
body) across the Paciﬁc in an outrigger canoe to Easter Island. The Composite
City where all human potentials are spread out in a vast silent market.
Minarets, palms, mountains, jungle … A sluggish river jumping with vicious ﬁsh,vast weed-grown parks where boys lie in the grass, play cryp c games. Not a
locked door in the City. Anyone comes into your room at any me. The Chief of
Police is a Chinese who picks his teeth and listens to denunciations presented by a
luna c. Every now and then the Chinese takes the toothpick out of his mouth and
looks at the end of it. Hipsters with smooth copper-colored faces lounge in
doorways twis ng shrunken heads on gold chains, their faces blank with an
insect’s unseeing calm.
Behind them, through open doors, tables and booths and bars, and kitchens
and baths, copula ng couples on rows of brass beds, crisscross of a thousand
hammocks, junkies typing up for a shot, opium smokers, hashish smokers, people
eating talking bathing back into a haze of smoke and steam.
Gaming tables where the games are played for incredible stakes. From time to
me a player leaps up with a despairing cry, having lost his youth to an old man or
become Latah to his opponent. But there are higher stakes than youth or Latah,
games where only two players in the world know what the stakes are.
All houses in the City are joined. Houses of sod – high mountain Mongols blink
in smokey doorways – houses of bamboo and teak, houses of adobe, stone and
red brick, South Paciﬁc and Maori houses, houses in trees and river boats, wood
houses one hundred feet long sheltering en re tribes, houses of boxes and
corrugated iron where old men sit in rotten rags cooking down canned heat, great
rusty iron racks rising two hundred feet in the air from swamps and rubbish with
perilous par ons built on mul -levelled pla orms, and hammocks swinging over
the void.
Expedi ons leave for unknown places with unknown purposes. Strangers
arrive on ra s of old packing crates ed together with ro en rope, they stagger
in out of the jungle their eyes swollen shut from insect bites, they come down the
mountain trails on cracked bleeding feet through the dusty windy outskirts of the
city, where people defecate in rows along adobe walls and vultures ﬁght over ﬁsh
heads. They drop down into parks in patched parachutes.… They are escorted by
a drunken cop to register in a vast public lavatory. The data taken down is put on
pegs to be used as toilet paper.
Cooking smells of all countries hang over the City, a haze of opium, hashish,
the resinous red smoke of Yage, smell of the jungle and salt water and the ro ng
river and dried excrement and sweat and genitals.
High mountain ﬂutes, jazz and bebop, one-stringed Mongol instruments, gypsy
xylophones, African drums, Arab bagpipes.…
The City is visited by epidemics of violence, and the untended dead are eaten
by vultures in the streets. Albinos blink in the sun. Boys sit in trees, languidly
masturbate. People eaten by unknown diseases watch the passerby with evil,
knowing eyes.
In the City Market is the Meet Café. Followers of obsolete, unthinkable trades
doodling in Etruscan, addicts of drugs not yet synthesized, pushers of souped-up
Harmaline, junk reduced to pure habit oﬀering precarious vegetable serenity,liquids to induce Latah, Tithonian longevity serums, black marketeers of World
War III, excisors of telepathic sensi vity, osteopaths of the spirit, inves gators of
infrac ons denounced by bland paranoid chess players, servers of fragmentary
warrants taken down in hebephrenic shorthand charging unspeakable mu la ons
of the spirit, bureaucrats of spectral departments, oﬃcials of uncons tuted
police states, a Lesbian dwarf who has perfected opera on Bangutot, the lung
erec on that strangles a sleeping enemy, sellers of orgone tanks and relaxing
machines, brokers of exquisite dreams and memories tested on the sensi zed
cells of junk sickness and bartered for raw materials of the will, doctors skilled in
the treatment of diseases dormant in the black dust of ruined ci es, gathering
virulence in the white blood of eyeless worms feeling slowly to the surface and
the human host, maladies of the ocean ﬂoor and the stratosphere, maladies of
the laboratory and atomic war.… A place where the unknown past and the
emergent future meet in a vibra ng soundless hum … Larval en es wai ng for a
Live One …
(Sec on describing The City and the Meet Café wri en in state of Yage
intoxica on … Yage, Ayuahuasca, Pilde, Nateema are Indian names for
Bannisteria Caapi, a fast growing vine indigenous to the Amazon region. See
discussion of Yage in Appendix.)
Notes from Yage state: Images fall slow and silent like snow.… Serenity … All
defenses fall … everything is free to enter or to go out.… Fear is simply
impossible.… A beau ful blue substance ﬂows into me.… I see an archaic grinning
face like South Pacific mask.… The face is blue purple splotched with gold …
The room takes on aspect of Near East whorehouse with blue walls and red
tasseled lamps.… I feel myself turning into a Negress, the black color silently
invading my ﬂesh.… Convulsions of lust … My legs take on a well rounded
Polynesian substance.… Everything s rs with a writhing fur ve life.… The room is
Near East, Negro, South Paciﬁc, in some familiar place I cannot locate.… Yage is
space- me travel.… The room seems to shake and vibrate with mo on.… The
blood and substance of many races, Negro, Polynesian, Mountain Mongol, Desert
Nomad, Polyglot Near East, Indian, races as yet unconceived and unborn, passes
through the body.… Migra ons, incredible journeys through deserts and jungles
and mountains (stasis and death in closed mountain valley where plants grow out
of genitals, vast crustaceans hatch inside and break the shell of body) across the
Pacific in an outrigger canoe to Easter Island.…
(It occurs to me that preliminary Yage nausea is mo on sickness of transport
to Yage state.…)
‘All medicine men use it in their prac ce to foretell the future, locate lost or
stolen objects, to diagnose and treat illness, to name the perpetrator of a crime.’
Since the Indian (straitjacket for Herr Boas – trade joke – nothing so maddens an
anthropologist as Primi ve Man) does not regard any death as accidental, and
they are unacquainted with their own self-destruc ve trends referring to them
contemptuously as ‘our naked cousins,’ or perhaps feeling that these trendsabove all are subject to the manipula on of alien and hos le wills, any death is
murder. The medicine man takes Yage and the iden ty of the murderer is
revealed to him. As you may imagine, the delibera ons of the medicine man
during one of these jungle inquests give rise to certain feelings of uneasiness
among his constituents.
‘Let’s hope Old Xiuptutol don’t wig and name one of the boys.’
‘Take a curare and relax. We got the fix in …’
‘But if he wig? Picking up on that Nateema all the me he don’t touch the
ground in twenty years.… I tell you, Boss, nobody can hit the stuﬀ like that.… It
cooks the brains.…’
‘So we declare him incompetent.…’
So Xiuptutol reels out of the jungle and says the boys in the Lower Tzpino
territory done it, which surprises no one.… Take it from an old Brujo, dearie, they
don’t like surprises.…
A funeral passes through the market. Black coﬃn – Arabic inscrip ons in
ﬁligreed silver – carried by four pallbearers. Procession of mourners singing the
funeral song … Clem and Jody fall in beside them carrying coﬃn, the corpse of a
hog bursts out of it.… The hog is dressed in a jellaba, a keif pipe juts from its
mouth, one hoof holds a packet of feelthy pictures, a mezuzzoth hangs about its
neck.… Inscribed on the coffin: ‘This was the noblest Arab of them all.’
They sing hideous parody of the funeral song in false Arabic. Jody can do a
fake Chinese spiel that’ll just kill you – like a hysterical ventriloquist’s dummy. In
fact, he precipitated an an -foreign riot in Shanghai that claimed 3,000
casualties.
‘Stand up, Gertie, and show respect for the local gooks.’
‘I suppose one should.’
‘My dear, I’m working on the most marvelous inven on … a boy who
disappears as soon as you come leaving a smell of burning leaves and a sound
effect of distant train whistles.’
‘Ever make sex in no gravity? Your jism just ﬂoats out in the air like lovely
ectoplasm, and female guests are subject to immaculate or at least indirect
conception.… Reminds me of an old friend of mine, one of the handsomest men I
have ever known and one of the maddest and absolutely ruined by wealth. He
used to go about with a water pistol shoo ng jism up career women at par es.
Won all his paternity suits hands down. Never use his own jism you understand.’
Fadeout … ‘Order in the Court.’ A orney for A.J., ‘Conclusive tests have
established that my client has no uh personal connec on with the uh li le
accident to the charming plain ﬀ.… Perhaps she is preparing to emulate the
Virgin Mary and conceive immaculately naming my client as a harumph ghostly
panderer.… I am reminded of a case in ﬁ eenth-century Holland where a young
woman accused an elderly and respectable sorcerer of conjuring up a succubus
who then had uh carnal knowledge of the young person in ques on with the
under the circumstances regre able result of pregnancy. So the sorcerer wasindicted as an accomplice and rampant voyeur before during and a er the fact.
However, gentlemen of the jury, we no longer credit such uh legends; and a young
woman a ribu ng her uh interes ng condi on to the a en ons of a succubus
would be accounted, in these enlightened days, a roman cist or in plain English a
God damned liar hehe hehe heh…’
And now The Prophet’s Hour:
‘Millins died in the mud flats. Only one blast free to lungs.
‘“Eye Eye, Captain,” he said, squir ng his eyes out on the deck.… And who
would put on the chains tonight? It is indicated to observe some cau on in the
upwind approach, the down wind having failed to turn up anything worth a rusty
load.… Senoritas are the wear this season in Hell, and I am red with the long
climb to a pulsing Vesuvius of alien pricks.’
Need Orient Express out of here to no hide place(r) mines are frequent in the
area.… Every day dig a little it takes up the time.…
Jack of phantoms whisper hot into the bone ear.…
Shoot your way to freedom.
‘Christ?’ sneers the vicious, fruity old Saint applying pancake from an alabaster
bowl.…‘That cheap ham! You think I’d demean myself to commit a miracle? …
That one should have stood in carny.…
‘“Step right up, Marquesses and Marks, and bring the li le Marks too. Good
for young and old, man and beast.… The one and only legit Son of Man will cure a
young boy’s clap with one hand – by contact alone, folks – create marijuana with
the other, whilst walking on water and squir ng wine out of his ass.… Now keep
your distance, folks, you is subject to be irradiated by the sheer charge of this
character.’
‘And I knew him when, dearie.… I recall we was doing an Impersona on Act –
very high class too – in Sodom, and that is one cheap town.… Strictly from hunger
… Well, this ci zen, this fucking Philis ne wandered in from Podunk Baal or some
place, called me a fucking fruit right on the ﬂoor. And I said to him: “Three
thousand years in show business and I always keep my nose clean. Besides I don’t
ha a take any shit oﬀ any uncircumcised cocksucker.” … Later he come to my
dressing room and made an apology.… Turns out he is a big physician. And he was
a lovely fellah, too.…
‘Buddha? A notorious metabolic junky … Makes his own you dig. In India,
where they got no sense of me, The Man is o en a month late.…“Now let me
see, is that the second or the third monsoon? I got like a meet in Ketchupore
about more or less.”
‘And all them junkies si ng around in the lotus posture spi ng on the ground
and waiting on The Man.
‘So Buddha says: “I don’t ha a take this sound. I’ll by God metabolize my own
junk.”
‘“Man you can’t do that. The Revenooers will swarm all over you.”
‘“Over me they won’t swarm. I go a gimmick, see? I’m a fuckin Holy Man asof right now.” ‘“Jeez, boss, what an angle.”
‘“Now some ci zens really wig when they make with the New Religion. These
fran c individuals do not know how to come on. No class to them … Besides,
they is subject to be lynched like who wants somebody hanging around being
be er’n other folks? ‘What you trying to do, Jack, give people a bad me? …’ So
we go a play it cool, you dig, cool.… We got a take it or leave it proposi on here,
folks. We don’t shove anything up your soul, unlike certain cheap characters who
shall be nameless and are nowhere. Clear the cave for ac on. I’m gonna
metabolize a speed ball and make with the Fire Sermon.”
‘Mohammed? Are you kidding? He was dreamed up by the Mecca Chamber of
Commerce. An Egyptian ad man on the skids from the sauce write the continuity.
‘“I’ll have one more, Gus. Then, by Allah, I will go home and receive a Surah.…
Wait’ll the morning edi on hits the souks. I am blas ng Amalgamated Images
wide open.”
‘The bartender looks up from his racing form. “Yeah. And theirs will be a
painful doom.”
‘“Oh … uh … quite. Now, Gus, I’ll write you a check.”
‘“You are only being the most notorious paper hanger in Greater Mecca. I am
not a wall, Mr. Mohammed.”
‘“Well, Gus, I got like two types publicity, favourable and otherwise. You want
some otherwise already? I am subject to receive a Surah concerning bartenders
who extendeth not credit to those in a needy way.”
‘“And theirs will be a painful doom. Sold Arabia.” He vaults over the bar. “I’m
not taking any more, Ahmed. Pick up thy Surahs and walk. In fact, I’ll help you.
And stay out.”
‘“I’ll ﬁx your wagon good, you unbelieving cocksucker. I’ll close you up ght
and dry as a junky’s asshole. I’ll by Allah dry up the Peninsula.” ‘“It’s a con nent
already.…”
‘Leave what Confucius say stand with Li le Audrey and the shaggy dogs. Lao-
Tze? They scratch him already.… And enough of these gooey saints with a look of
pathic dismay as if they ge ng fucked up the ass and try not to pay any mind.
And why should we let some old broken-down ham tell us what wisdom is?
“Three thousand years in show business and I always keep my nose clean.…”
‘First, every Fact is incarcerate along with the male hustlers and those who
desecrate the gods of commerce by playing ball in the streets, and some old
white-haired fuck staggers out to give us the beneﬁts of his ripe idiocy. Are we
never to be free of this grey-beard loon lurking on every mountain top in Tibet,
subject to drag himself out of a hut in the Amazon, waylay one in the Bowery?
“I’ve been expec ng you, my son,” and he make with a silo full of corn. “Life is a
school where every pupil must learn a diﬀerent lesson. And now I will unlock my
Word Hoard.…”
‘“I do fear it much.”
‘“Nay, nothing shall stem the rising tide.”‘“I can’t stem him, boys. Sauve qui peut.”
‘“I tell you when I leave the Wise Man I don’t even feel like a human. He
converting my life orgones into dead bullshit.”
‘So I got an exclusive why don’t I make with the live word? The word cannot
be expressed direct.… It can perhaps be indicated by mosaic of juxtaposi on like
articles abandoned in a hotel drawer, defined by negatives and absence.…
‘Think I’ll have my stomach tucked.… I may be old, but I’m still desirable.’
(The Stomach Tuck is surgical intervention to remove stomach fat at the same
me making a tuck in the abdominal wall, thus crea ng a Flesh Corset, which is,
however, subject to break and spurt your horrible old guts across the ﬂoor.… The
slim and shapely F.C. models are, of course, the most dangerous. In fact, some
extreme models are known as O.N.S. – One Night Stands – in the industry.
Doctor ‘Doodles’ Rinderpest states bluntly: ‘Bed is the most dangerous place
for an F.C. man.’
The F.C. theme song is ‘Believe Me If All These Endearing Young Charms.’ An
F.C. partner is indeed subject to ‘flee from your arms like fairy gifts fading away.’)
In a white museum room full of sunlight pink nudes sixty feet high. Vast
adolescent muttering.
Silver guard rail … chasm a thousand feet down into the gli ering sunlight.
Li le green plots of cabbage and le uce. Brown youths with adzes spied by the
old queen across a sewage canal.
‘Oh dear, I wonder if they fer lize with human excrement.… Maybe they’ll do
it now.’
He flips out mother of pearl opera glasses – Aztec mosaic in the sun.
Long line of Greek lads march up with alabaster bowels of shit, empty into the
limestone marl hole.
Dusty poplars shake across the red brick Plaza de Toros in the a ernoon
wind.
Wooden cubicles around a hot spring … rubble of ruined walls in a grove of
co onwoods … the benches worn smooth as metal by a million masturba ng
boys.
Greek lads white as marble fuck dog style on the por co of a great golden
temple … naked Mugwump twangs a lute.
Walking down by the tracks in his red sweater met Sammy the Dock Keeper’s
son with two Mexicans.
‘Hey, Skinny,’ he said, ‘want to get screwed?’
‘Well … Yeah.’
On a ruined straw ma ress the Mexican pulled him up on all fours – Negro
boy dance around them bea ng out the strokes … sun through a knot-hole pink
spotlights his cock.
A waste of raw pink shame to the pastel blue horizon where vast iron mesas
crash into the shattered sky.
‘It’s all right.’ The God screams through you three thousand year rusty load.…Hail of crystal skulls shattered the greenhouse to slivers in the winter moon.…
The American woman has le a whiﬀ of poison behind in the dank St. Louis
garden party.
Pool covered with green slime in a ruined French garden. Huge pathic frog
rises slowly from the water on a mud platform playing the clavichord.
A Sollubi rushes into the bar and starts polishing The Saint’s shoes with the oil
on his nose.… The Saint kicks him petulantly in the mouth. The Sollubi screams,
whirls around and shits on the Saint’s pants. Then he dashes into the street. A
pimp looks after him speculatively.…
The Saint calls the manager: ‘Jesus, Al, what kinda creep joint you running
here? My brand new fishskin Dégagées …’
‘I’m sorry, Saint. He slipped by me.’
(The Sollubi are an untouchable caste in Arabia noted for their abject vileness.
De luxe cafés are equipped with Sollubi who rim the guests while they eat – holes
in the sea ng benches being provided for this purpose. Ci zens who want to be
u erly humiliated and degraded – so many people do nowadays, hoping to jump
the gun – oﬀer themselves up for passive homosexual intercourse to an
encampment of Sollubis.… Nothing like it, they tell me.… In fact, the Sollubi are
subject to become wealthy and arrogant and lose their na ve vileness. What is
origin of untouchable? Perhaps a fallen priest caste. In fact, untouchables
perform a priestly function in taking on themselves all human vileness.
A.J. strolls through the Market in black cape with a vulture perched on one
shoulder. He stands by a table of agents.
‘This you go a hear. Boy in Los Angeles ﬁ een year old. Father decide it is
me the boy have his ﬁrst piece of ass. Boy is lying on the lawn reading comic
books, father go out and say: “Son here’s twenty dollars: I want you to go to a
good whore and get a piece of ass off her.”
‘So they drive to this plush jump joint and the father say, “All right, son. You’re
on your own. So ring the bell and when the woman come give her the twenty
dollars and tell her you want a piece of ass.”
‘“Solid, pop.”
‘So about fifteen minutes later the boy comes out:
‘“Well, son, did you get a piece of ass?”
‘“Yeah. This gash comes to the door, and I say I want a piece of ass and lay
the double sawski on her. We go up to her trap, and she remove the dry goods.
So I switch my blade and cut a big hunk oﬀ her ass, she raise a beef like I am
reduce to pull off one shoe and beat her brains out. Then I hump her for kicks.’
Only the laughing bones remain, ﬂesh over the hills and far away with the
dawn wind and a train whistle. We are not unaware of the problem, and the
needs of our cons tuents are never out of our mind being their place of
residence and who can break a ninety-nine year synapses lease?
Another installment in the adventures of Clem Snide the Private Ass Hole: ‘So I
walk in the joint, and this female hustler sit at the bar, and I think, “Oh God,you’re poule de luxe already.” I mean it’s like I see the gash before. So I don’t pay
her no mind at ﬁrst, then I dig she is rubbing her legs together and working her
feet up behind her head shoves it down to give herself a douche job with a gadget
sticks out of her nose the way a body can’t help but notice.’
Iris – half Chinese and half Negro – addicted to dihydro-oxy-heroin – takes a
shot every ﬁ een minutes to which end she leaves droppers and needles s cking
out all over her. The needles rust in her dry ﬂesh, which, here and there, has
grown completely over a joint to form a smooth green brown wen. On the table
in front of her is a samovar of tea and a twenty-pound hamper of brown sugar.
No one has ever seen her eat anything else. It is only just before a shot that she
hears what anyone says or talks herself. Then she makes some ﬂat, factual
statement relative to her own person.
‘My asshole is occluding.’
‘My cunt got terrible green juices.’
Iris is one of Benway’s projects. ‘The human body can run on sugar alone, God
damn it.… I am aware that certain of my learned colleagues, who are a emp ng
to beli le my genius work, claim that I put vitamins and proteins into Iris’s sugar
clandes nely.… I challenge these nameless assholes to crawl up out of their
latrines and run a spot analysis on Iris’s sugar and her tea. Iris is a wholesome
American cunt. I deny categorically that she nourishes herself on semen. And let
me take this opportunity to state that I am a reputable scien st, not a charlatan,
a luna c, or a pretended worker of miracles.… I never claimed that Iris could
subsist exclusive on photosynthesis.… I did not say she could breathe in carbon
dioxide and give oﬀ oxygen – I confess I have been tempted to experiment being
of course restrained by my medical ethics.… In short, the vile slanders of my
creeping opponents will inevitably fall back onto them and come to roost like a
homing stool pigeon.’Ordinary Men and Women
Luncheon of Na onalist Party on balcony overlooking the Market. Cigars, scotch,
polite belches.… The Party Leader strides about in a jellaba smoking a cigar and
drinking Scotch. He wears expensive English shoes, loud socks, garters, muscular,
hairy legs – overall effect of successful gangster in drag.
P.L. (pointing dramatically): ‘Look out there. What do you see?’
LIEUTENANT: ‘Huh? Why, I see the Market.’
P.L.: ‘No you don’t. You see men and women. Ordinary men and women
going about their ordinary everyday tasks. Leading their ordinary lives. That’s
what we need.…’
A street boy climbs over the balcony rail.
LIEUTENANT: ‘No we do not want to buy any used condoms! Cut!’
P.L.: ‘Wait! … Come in, my boy. Sit down.… Have a cigar.… Have a drink.’
He paces around the boy like an aroused tom cat.
‘What do you think about the French?’
‘Huh?’
‘The French. The Colonial bastards who is sucking your live corpuscles.’
‘Look mister. It cost two hundred francs to suck my corpuscle. Haven’t
lowered my rates since the year of the rindpest when all the tourists died, even
the Scandinavians.’
P.L.: ‘You see? This is pure uncut boy in the street.’
‘You sure can pick’em, boss.’
‘M.I. never misses.’
P.L.: ‘Now look, kid, let’s put it this way. The French have dispossessed you of
your birthright.’
‘You mean like Friendly Finance? … They got this toothless Egyp an eunuch
does the job. They ﬁgure he arouse less antagonism, you dig, he always take
down his pants to show you his condi on. “Now I’m just a poor old eunuch trying
to keep up my habit. Lady, I’d like to give you an extension on that ar ﬁcial
kidney, I got a job to do is all.… Disconnect her, boys.” He shows his gums in a
feeble snarl.…“Not for nothing am I known as Nellie the Repossessor.”
‘So they disconnect my own mother, the sainted old gash, and she swell up
and turn black and the whole souk s nk of piss and the neighbours beef to the
Board of Health and my father say: “It’s the will of Allah. She won’t piss any more
of my loot down the drain.”
‘Sick people disgust me already. When some ci zen start telling me about his
cancer of the prostate or his ro ng septum make with that purulent discharge I
tell him: “You think I am innarested to hear about your horrible old condi on? I
am not innarested at all.”’
P.L.: ‘All right. Cut … You hate French, don’t you?’
‘Mister, I hate everybody. Doctor Benway says it’s metabolic, I got this
condi on of the blood.… Arabs and Americans got it special.… Doctor Benway isconcocting this serum.’
P.L.: ‘Benway is an infiltrating Western Agent.’
L.1.: ‘A rampant French Jew …’
L.2: ‘A hog-balled, black-assed Communist Jew’
P.L.: ‘Shut up, you fool!’
L.2: ‘Sorry, chief. I am after being stationed in Pigeonhole.’
P.L.: ‘Don’t go near Benway.’ (Aside: ‘I wonder if this will go down. You never
know how primitive they are.…’) ‘Confidentially he’s a black magician.’
L.1: ‘He’s got this resident djinn.’
‘Uhuh … Well I got a date with a high-type American client. A real classy
fellah.’
P.L.: ‘Don’t you know it’s shameful to peddle your ass to the alien unbelieving
pricks?’
‘Well that’s a point of view. Have fun.’
P.L.: ‘Likewise.’ Exit boy. ‘They’re hopeless I tell you. Hopeless.’
L.1. ‘What’s with this serum?’
P.L.: ‘I don’t know, but it sounds ominous. We be er put a telepathic
direc on ﬁnder on Benway. The man’s not to be trusted. Might do almost
anything.… Turn a massacre into a sex orgy.…’
‘Or a joke.’
‘Precisely. Arty type … No principles …’
AMERICAN HOUSEWIFE (opening a box of Lux): ‘Why don’t it have an electric eye
the box ﬂip open when it see me and hand itself to the Automat Handy Man he
should put it inna water already.… The Handy Man is outa control since Thursday,
he been ge ng physical with me and I didn’t put it in his combina on at all.… And
the Garbage Disposal Unit snapping at me, and the nasty old Mixmaster keep
trying to get up under my dress.… I got the most awful cold, and my intes nes is
all cons pated.… I’m gonna put it in the Handy Man’s combina on he should
administer me a high colonic awready.’
SALESMAN (he is something between an aggressive Latah and a mid Sender):
‘Recollect when I am travelling with K. E., hottest idea man in the gadget industry.
‘“Think of it!” he snaps. “A cream separator in your own kitchen!”
‘“K. E., my brain reels at the thought.”
‘“It’s five, maybe ten, yes, maybe twenty years away.… But it’s coming.”
‘“I’ll wait, K. E. No ma er how long it is I’ll wait. When the priority numbers
are called up yonder I’ll be there.”
‘It was K. E. put out the Octopus Kit for Massage Parlors, Barber Shops and
Turkish Baths, with which you can administer a high colonic, an unethical
massage, a shampoo, whilst cu ng the client’s toenails and removing his
blackheads. And the M.D.’s Can Do Kit for busy prac oners will take out your
appendix, tuck in a hernia, pull a wisdom tooth, ectomize your piles and
circumcise you. Well, K. E. is such an atomic salesman if he runs out of Octopus
Kits he is subject, by sheer charge, to sell an M.D. Can Do to a barber shop andsome citizen wakes up with his piles cut out.…
‘“Jesus, Homer, what kinda creep joint you running here? I been gang fucked.”
‘“Well, landsake, Si, I was just aiming to administer our complimentary high
colonic free and gra s on Thanksgiving Day. K. E. musta sold me the wrong kit
again.…”’
MALE HUSTLER: ‘What a boy hasta put up with in this business. Gawd! The
proposi ons I get you wouldn’t believe it.… They wanta play Latah, they wanta
merge with my protoplasm, they want a replica cu ng, they wanta suck my
orgones, they wanta take over my past experience and leave old memories that
disgust me.…
‘I am fucking this ci zen so I think, “A straight John at last”; but he comes to a
climax and turns himself into some kinda awful crab.… I told him, “Jack, I don’t
ha a stand s ll for such a rou ne like this.… You can take that business to
Walgreen’s.” Some people got no class to them. Another horrible old character
just sits there and telepathizes and creams in his dry goods. So nasty.’
The bum boys fall back in u er confusion to the brink of the Soviet network
where Cossacks hang par sans to the wild wail of bagpipes and the boys march
up Fi h Avenue to be met by Jimmy Walkover with the keys to The Kingdom and
no strings attached carry them loose in your pocket.…
Why so pale and wan, fair bugger? Smell of dead leeches in a rusty n can
latch onto that live wound, suck out the body and blood and bones of Jeeeeesus,
leave him paralyzed from the waist down.
Yield up thy forms, boy, to thy sugar daddy got the exam three years early and
know all the answer books fix the World Series.
Slunk traﬃkers tail a pregnant cow to her labor. The farmer declares a couvade,
rolls screaming in bullshit. The veterinarian wrestles with a cow skeleton. The
traﬃkers machinegun each other, dodging through the machinery and silos,
storage bins, haylo s and mangers of a vast red barn. The calf is born. The forces
of death melt in morning. Farm boy kneels reverently – his throat pulses in the
rising sun.
Junkies si ng on the courthouse steps, wai ng on The Man. Red Necks in
black stetsons and faded Levis e a Nigra boy to an old iron lamppost and cover
him with burning gasoline.… The junkies rush over and draw the ﬂesh smoke deep
into their aching lungs.… They really got relief.…
THE COUNTY CLERK: ‘So there I was si ng in front of Jed’s store over in Cunt Lick
my peter standing up straight as a jack pine under my Levis just apulsin’ in the sun.
… Weell, old Doc Scranton walks by, a good old boy too, there’s not a finer man in
this valley than Doc Scranton. He’s got a prolapsed asshole and when he wants to
get screwed he’ll pass you his ass on three feet of in-tes- ne.… If he’s a mind to it
he can drop out a piece of gut reaches from his oﬃce clear over to Roy’s Beer
Place, and it go feelin’ around lookin’ for a peter, just a-feelin’ around like a blind
worm.… So old Doc Scranton sees my peter and he stops like a poin n’ dog andhe say to me, “Luke, I can take your pulse from here.’”
Browbeck and Young Seward ﬁght with hog castrators through barns and
cages and yiping kennels … whinnying horses bare great yellow teeth, cows
bellow, dogs howl, copula ng cats scream like babies, a pen of huge hogs, spines
bristling, give a great Bronx cheer. Browbeck the Unsteady has fallen to the
sword of Young Seward, clutches at blue intes nes spur ng from an eight inch
gash. Young Seward cuts oﬀ Browbeck’s cock and holds it pulsing in the smoky
rose sunrise.…
Browbeck screams … subway brakes spit ozone.…
‘Stand back, folks.… Stand back.’
‘They say somebody pushed him.’
‘He was weaving around unsteady like he couldn’t see good.’
‘Too much smoke in the eyes, I guess.’
Mary the Lesbian Governess has slipped to the pub ﬂoor on a bloody kotex.…
A three-hundred-pound fag tramples her to death with pathic whinnies.…
He sings in hideous falsetto:
He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored,
He has loosed the fatal lightning of his terrible swift sword.
He pulls a gilded wooden sword and chops the air. His corset ﬂies oﬀ and
whistles into the dart board.
The old bullﬁghter’s sword buckles on bone and whistles into the heart of the
Espontaneo, pins his unconsummate valor to the stands.
‘So this elegant comes to New York from Cunt Lick, Texas, and he is the
most piss elegant fag of them all. He is taken up by old women of the type ba en
on young fags, toothless old predators too weak and too slow to run down other
prey. Old moth-eaten gress shit sure turn into a fag eater.… So this ci zen, being
an arty and cra y fag, begins making costume jewelry and jewelry sets. Every rich
old gash in Great New York wants he should do her sets, and he is making money,
21, El Morocco, Stork, but no me for sex, and all the me worrying about his
rep.… He begins playing the horses, supposed to be something manly about
gambling God knows why, and he ﬁgures it will build him up to be seen at the
track. Not many fags play the horses, and those that play lose more than the
others, they are lousy gamblers plunge in a losing streak and hedge when they win
… which being the pa ern of their lives.… Now every child knows there is one law
of gambling: winning and losing come in streaks. Plunge when you win, fold when
you lose. (I once knew a fag dip into the ll – not the whole two thousand at
once on the nose win or Sing Sing. Not our Gertie … Oh no a deuce at a time …)
‘So he loses and loses and lose some more. One day he is about to put a rock
in a set when the obvious occur. “Of course, I’ll replace it later.” Famous last
words. So all that winter, one a er the other, the diamonds, emeralds, pearls,
rubies and star sapphires of the haut monde go in hock and replaced by queer
replicas.…‘So the opening night of the Met this old hag appear as she thinks, resplendent
in her diamond ara. So this other old whore approach and say, “Oh, Miggles,
you’re so smart … to leave the real ones at home.… I mean we’re simply mad to
go around tempting fate.”
‘“You’re mistaken, my dear. These are real.”
‘“Oh but Miggles, they’re not.… I mean ask your jeweler.… Well just ask
anybody. Haaaaaa.”
‘So a Sabbath is has ly called. (Lucy Bradshinkel, look at thy emeralds.) All
these old witches examining their rocks like a citizen finds leprosy on himself.
‘“My chicken blood ruby!”
‘“My bleck oopalls!” Old bitch marry so many mes so many gooks and spices
she don’t know her accent from her ass.…
‘“My stah sahpphire!” shrieks a poule de luxe. “Oh it’s all so awful!”
‘“I mean they are strictly from Woolworth’s.…”
‘“There’s only one thing to do. I’m going to call the police,” says a strong-
minded, outspoken old thing; and she clump across the ﬂoor on her low heels and
calls the fuzz.
‘Well, the draws a deuce; and in the box he meets this cat who is some
species of cheap hustler, and love sets in or at least a facsimile thereof convince
the par es inna ﬁrst and second parts. As con nuity would have it, they are
sprung at the same me more or less and take up residence in a ﬂat on the Lower
East Side.… And cook in and both are working legit modest jobs.… So Brad and Jim
know happiness for the first time.
‘Enter the powers of evil.… Lucy Bradshinkel has come to say all is forgiven.
She has faith in Brad and wants to set him up in a studio. Of course, he will have
to move to the East Six es.…“This place is impossible, dahling; and your friend …”
And a safe mob wants Jim back to drive a car. This a step up, you dig? Oﬀer from
citizen hardly see him before.
‘Will Jim go back to crime? Will Brad succumb to the blandishments of an
aging vampire, a ravening Maw? … Needless to say, the forces of evil are routed
and exit with ominous snarls and mutterings.
‘“The Boss isn’t going to like this.”
‘“I don’t know why I ever wasted my me with you, you cheap, vulgar li le
fairy.”
‘The boys stand at the tenement window, their arms around each other,
looking at the Brooklyn Bridge. A warm spring wind ruﬄes Jim’s black curls and
the fine hennaed hair of Brad.
‘“Well, Brad, what’s for supper?”
‘“You just go in the other room and wait.” Playfully he shooes Jim out of the
kitchen, and puts on his apron.
‘Dinner is Lucy Bradshinkel’s cunt saignant cooked in kotex papillon. The boys
eat happily looking into each other’s eyes. Blood runs down their chins.’
Let the dawn blue as a ﬂame cross the city.… The backyards are clean of fruit,and the ash pits give up their hooded dead.…
‘Could you show me the way to Tipperary, Lady?’
Over the hills and far away to Blue Grass.… Across the bone meal of lawn to
the frozen pond where suspended goldfish wait for the spring Squaw Man.
The screaming skull rolls up the back stairs to bite oﬀ the cock of erring
husband taking dour advantage of his wife’s earache to do that which is
inconvenient. The young landlubber dons a southwester, beats his wife to death
in the shower.
BENWAY: ‘Don’t take it so hard, kid.…“Jeder macht eine kleine Dummerheit.”’
(Everyone makes a little dumbness.)
SCHAFER: ‘I tell you I can’t escape a feeling … well, of evil about this.’
BENWAY: ‘Balderdash, my boy … We’re scien sts … Pure scien sts. Disinterested
research and damned be him who cries, “Hold, too much!” Such people are no
better than party poops.’
SCHAFER: ‘Yes, yes, of course … and yet … I can’t get that stench out of my lungs.
…’
BENWAY: (irritably): ‘None of us can.… Never smelled anything remotely like it.…
Where was I? Oh yes, what would be the result of administering curare plus iron
lung during acute mania? Possibly the subject, unable to discharge his tensions in
motor ac vity, would succumb on the spot like a jungle rat. Interes ng cause of
death, what?’
Schafer is not listening. ‘You know,’ he says impulsively, ‘I think I’ll go back to
plain old-fashioned surgery. The human body is scandalously ineﬃcient. Instead
of a mouth and an anus to get out of order why not have one all-purpose hole to
eat and eliminate? We could seal up nose and mouth, ﬁll in the stomach, make an
air hole direct into the lungs where it should have been in the first place.…’
BENWAY: ‘Why not one all-purpose blob? Did I ever tell you about the man who
taught his asshole to talk? His whole abdomen would move up and down you dig
farting out the words. It was unlike anything I ever heard.
‘This ass talk had a sort of gut frequency. It hit you right down there like you
go a go. You know when the old colon gives you the elbow and it feels sorta
cold inside, and you know all you have to do is turn loose? Well this talking hit
you right down there, a bubbly, thick stagnant sound, a sound you could smell.
‘This man worked for a carnival you dig, and to start with it was like a novelty
ventriloquist act. Real funny, too, at ﬁrst. He had a number he called “The Be er
‘Ole” that was a scream, I tell you. I forget most of it but it was clever. Like, “Oh I
say, are you still down there, old thing?”
‘“Nah! I had to go relieve myself.”
‘A er a while the ass started talking on its own. He would go in without
anything prepared and his ass would ad-lib and toss the gags back at him every
time.
‘Then it developed sort of teeth-like li le raspy incurving hooks and started
ea ng. He thought this was cute at ﬁrst and built an act around it, but the assholewould eat its way through his pants and start talking on the street, shou ng out it
wanted equal rights. It would get drunk, too, and have crying jags nobody loved it
and it wanted to be kissed same as any other mouth. Finally it talked all the me
day and night, you could hear him for blocks screaming at it to shut up, and
bea ng it with his ﬁst, and s cking candles up it, but nothing did any good and the
asshole said to him: “It’s you who will shut up in the end. Not me. Because we
don’t need you around here any more. I can talk and eat and shit.”
‘A er that he began waking up in the morning with a transparent jelly like a
tadpole’s tail all over his mouth. This jelly was what the scien sts call un-D.T.,
Undiﬀeren ated Tissue, which can grow into any kind of ﬂesh on the human
body. He would tear it oﬀ his mouth and the pieces would s ck to his hands like
burning gasoline jelly and grow there, grow anywhere on him a glob of it fell. So
ﬁnally his mouth sealed over, and the whole head would have amputated
spontaneous – (did you know there is a condi on occurs in parts of Africa and
only among Negroes where the li le toe amputates spontaneously?) – except for
the eyes you dig. That’s one thing the asshole couldn’t do was see. It needed the
eyes. But nerve connec ons were blocked and inﬁltrated and atrophied so the
brain couldn’t give orders any more. It was trapped in the skull, sealed oﬀ. For a
while you could see the silent, helpless suﬀering of the brain behind the eyes,
then ﬁnally the brain must have died, because the eyes went out, and there was
no more feeling in them than a crab’s eye on the end of a stalk.
‘That’s the sex that passes the censor, squeezes through between bureaus,
because there’s always a space between, in popular songs and Grade B movies,
giving away the basic. American ro enness, spur ng out like breaking boils,
throwing out globs of that un-D.T. to fall anywhere and grow into some
degenerate cancerous life-form, reproducing a hideous random image. Some
would be en rely made of penis-like erec le ssue, others viscera barely covered
over with skin, clusters of 3 and 4 eyes together, criss-cross of mouth and
assholes, human parts shaken around and poured out any way they fell.
‘The end result of complete cellular representa on is cancer. Democracy is
cancerous, and bureaus are its cancer. A bureau takes root anywhere in the state,
turns malignant like the Narco c Bureau, and grows and grows, always
reproducing more of its own kind, un l it chokes the host if not controlled or
excised. Bureaus cannot live without a host, being true parasi c organisms. (A
coopera ve on the other hand can live without the state. That is the road to
follow. The building up of independent units to meet needs of the people who
par cipate in the func oning of the unit. A bureau operates on opposite principle
of inven ng needs to jus fy its existence.) Bureaucracy is wrong as a cancer, a
turning away from the human evolu onary direc on of inﬁnite poten als and
diﬀeren a on and independent spontaneous ac on, to the complete parasi sm
of a virus.
‘(It is thought that the virus is a degenera on from a more complex life form.
It may at one me have been capable of independent life. Now it has fallen tothe borderline between living and dead ma er. It can exhibit living quali es only
in a host, but using the life of another – the renuncia on of life itself, a falling
towards inorganic, inflexible machine, towards dead matter.)
‘Bureaus die when the structure of the state collapses. They are as helpless
and unﬁt for independent existences as a displaced tapeworm, or a virus that has
killed the host.
‘In Timbuktu I once saw an Arab boy who could play a ﬂute with his ass, and
the fairies told me he was really an individual in bed. He could play a tune up and
down the organ hi ng the most erogenously sensi ve spots, which are diﬀerent
on everyone, of course. Every lover had his special theme song which was perfect
for him and rose to his climax. The boy was a great ar st when it came to
improvising new combines and special climaxes, some of them notes in the
unknown, e-ups of seeming discords that would suddenly break through each
other and crash together with a stunning, hot sweet impact.’
‘Fats’ Terminal has organized a purple-assed baboon stick from motorcycles.
The Huntsmen have gathered for the Hunt Breakfast in The Swarm Bar, a
hang-out for elegant pansies. The Huntsmen strut about with imbecile narcissism
in black leather jackets and studded belts, ﬂexing their muscles for the fags to
feel. They all wear enormous falsie baskets. Every now and then one of them
throws a fag to the floor and pisses on him.
They are drinking Victory Punch, compounded of paregoric, Spanish Fly, heavy
black rum, Napoleon brandy and canned heat. The punch is served from a great,
hollow, gold baboon, crouched in snarling terror, snapping at a spear in his side.
You twist the baboon’s balls and punch runs out his cock. From me to me hot
hors-d’oeuvres pop out the baboon’s ass with a loud far ng noise. When this
happens the Huntsmen roar with bestial laughter, and the fags shriek and twitch.
Master of the Hunt is Captain Everhard, who was drummed out of the
Queen’s 69th for palming a jock-strap in a game of strip poker. Motorcycles
careening, jumping, overturning. Spi ng, shrieking, shi ng baboons ﬁgh ng hand
to hand with the Huntsmen. Riderless cycles scrabbling about in the dust like
crippled insects, attacking baboon and Huntsman.…
The Party Leader rides in triumph through yiping crowds. A digniﬁed old man
shits at sight of him and tries to sacrifice himself under the wheels of the car.
PARTY LEADER: ‘Don’t sacriﬁce your dried up person under the wheels of my
brand new Buick Roadmaster Conver ble with white-walled res, hydraulic
windows and all the trimmings. It’s a chip Arab trick – look to thy accent, Ivan –
save it for fer lizer.… We refer you to the conserva on department to
consummate your swell purpose.…’
The washing boards are down, and the sheets are sent to the Laundromat to
lose those guilty stains – Emmanuel prophesies a Second Coming.…
There’s a boy across the river with an ass like a peach; alas I was no swimmer
and lost my Clementine.
The junky sits with needle poised to the message of blood, and the con manpalpates the mark with fingers of rotten ectoplasm.…
Dr. Berger’s Mental Hour.… Fadeout.
TECHNICIAN: ‘Now listen, I’ll say it again, and I’ll say it slow. “Yes.”’ He nods. ‘And
make with the smile.… The smile.’ He shows his false teeth in hideous parody of a
toothpaste ad. ‘“We like apple pie, and we like each other. It’s just as simple as
that,” – and make it sound simple, country simple.… Look bovine, whyncha? You
want the switchboard again? Or the pail?’
SUBJECT – Cured Criminal Psychopath – ‘No! … No! … What’s this bovine?’
TECHNICIAN: ‘Look like a cow.’
SUBJECT – with cow’s head – ‘Moooo Moooo.’
TECHNICIAN (star ng back): ‘Too much!! No! Just look square, you dig, like a nice
popcorn John.…’
SUBJECT: ‘A mark?’
TECHNICIAN: ‘Well, not exactly a mark. Not enough larceny in this ci zen. He is
a er light concussion.… You know the type. Telepathic sender and receiver
excised. The Service Man Look … Action, camera.’
SUBJECT: ‘Yes, we like apple pie.’ His stomach rumbles loud and long. Streamers
of saliva hang off his chin.…
Dr. Berger looks up from some notes. He look like Jewish owl with black
glasses, the light hurt his eyes: ‘I think he is an unsuitable subject.… See he reports
to Disposal.’
TECHNICIAN: ‘Well, we could cut that rumble out of the sound track, s ck a drain
in his mouth and …’
DR. BERGER: ‘No … He’s unsuitable.’ He looks at the subject with distaste as if he
commit some terrible faux-pas like look for crabs in Mrs. Worldly’s drawing
room.
TECHNICIAN (resigned and exasperated): ‘Bring in the cured swish.’
The cured homosexual is brought in.… He walks through invisible contours of
hot metal. He sits in front of the camera and starts arranging his body in a
countriﬁed sprawl. Muscles move into place like autonomous parts of a severed
insect. Blank stupidity blurs and so ens his face: ‘Yes,’ he nods and smiles, ‘we
like apple pie and we like each other. It’s just as simple as that.’ He nods and
smiles and nods and smiles and –
‘Cut! …’ screams the Technician. The cured homosexual is led out nodding and
smiling.
‘Play it back.’
The Artistic Adviser shakes his head: ‘It lacks something. To be specific, it lacks
health.’
BERGER (leaps to his feet): ‘Preposterous! It’s health incarnate! …’
ARTISTIC ADVISER (primly): ‘Well if you have anything to enlighten me on this
subject I’ll be very glad to hear it, Doctor Berger.… If you with your brilliant mind
can carry the project alone, I don’t know why you need an Art Adviser at all.’ He
exits with hand on hip singing softly: ‘I’ll be around when you’re gone.’TECHNICIAN: ‘Send in the cured writer.… He’s got what? Buddhism? … Oh, he
can’t talk. Say so at ﬁrst, whyncha?’ He turns to Berger: ‘The writer can’t talk.…
Overliberated, you might say. Of course we can dub him.…’
BERGER (sharply): ‘No, that wouldn’t do at all.… Send in someone else.’
TECHNICIAN: ‘Those two was my white-haired boys. I put in a hundred hours
overtime on those kids for which I am not yet compensate.…’
BERGER: ‘Apply triplicate.… Form 6090.’
TECHNICIAN: ‘You telling me how to apply already? Now look, Doc, you say
something once. “To speak of a healthy homosexual it’s like how can a ci zen be
perfectly healthy with terminal cirrhosis.” Remember?’
BERGER: ‘Oh yes. Very well put, of course,’ he snarls viciously. ‘I don’t pretend
to be a writer.’ He spits the word out with such ugly hate that the Technician reels
back appalled.…
TECHNICIAN (aside): ‘I can’t bear the smell of him. Like old ro en replica
cultures.… Like the farts of a maneating plant.… Like Schafer’s hurumph’ (parodies
academic manner) ‘Strange Serpent … What I’m ge ng at, Doc, is how can you
expect a body to be healthy with its brains washed out? … Or put it another way.
Can a subject be healthy in abstentia by proxy already?’
BERGER (leaps up): ‘I got the health! … All the health! Enough health for the
whole world, the whole fucking world!! I cure everybody!’
The Technician looks at him sourly. He mixes a bicarbonate of soda and drinks
it and belches into his hand. ‘Twenty years I’ve been a martyr to dyspepsia.’
Lovable Lu your brainwashed poppa say: ‘I’m strictly for ﬁsh, and I luuuuuve
it.… Conﬁden ally, girls, I use Steely Dan’s Yokohama, wouldn’t you? Danny Boy
never lets you down. Besides it’s more hygienic that way and avoids all kinda
awful contacts leave a man paralyzed from the waist down. Women have poison
juices.…’
‘So I told him, I said “Doctor Berger, don’t think you can pass your red old
brainwashed belles on me. I’m the oldest in the Upper Baboon’s Asshole.
…”’
Switch envelopes in clip clap joint where fradulent girls put the B on you in favor
of the House 666 and there is no health in them clap broads ro en to the apple
corer of my unconsummate cock. Who shot Cock Robin? … The sparrow falls to
my trustful Webley, and a drop of blood gathers at his beak.…
Lord Jim has turned bright yellow in the woe withered moon of morning like
white smoke against the blue stuﬀ, and shirts whip in a cold spring wind on
limestone cliﬀs across the river, Mary, and the dawn is broken in two pieces like
Dillinger on the lamster way to the Biograph. Smell of neon and atrophied
gangsters, and the criminal manqué nerves himself to crack a pay toilet sniﬃng
ammonia in a bucket.…‘A caper,’ he says. ‘I’ll pull this capon I mean caper.’
PARTY LEADER (mixing another scotch): ‘The next riot goes oﬀ like a football play.
We have imported a thousand bone fed, blue ribbon Latahs from Indochina.… Allwe need is one riot leader for the whole unit.’ His eyes sweep the table.
LIEUTENANT: ‘But, chief, can’t we get them started and they imitate each other
like a chained reaction?’
The Diseuse undulate through the Market: ‘What’s a Latah do when he’s
alone?’
P.L.: ‘That a technical point. We’ll have to consult Benway. Personally, I think
someone should follow through on the whole operation.’
‘I do not know,’ he said for lack of the requisite points and ra ngs to secure
the appointment.
‘They have no feelings,’ said Doctor Benway, slashing his pa ent to shreds.
‘Just reflexes … I urge distraction.’
‘The age of consent is when they learn to talk.’
‘May all your troubles be little ones as one child molester say to the other.’
‘It’s really ominous, my dear, when they start trying on your clothes and give
you those doppelganger kicks.…’
Frantic queen trying to claw sport jacket off departing boy.
‘My two hundred dollar cashmere jacket,’ she screeches.…
‘So he has an affair with this Latah, he wants to dominate someone complete,
the silly old thing.… The Latah imitates all his expression and mannerisms and
simply sucks all the persona right out of him like a sinister ventriloquist’s dummy.
…“You’ve taught me everything you are.… I need a new amigo.” And poor Bubu
can’t answer for himself, having no self left.’
JUNKY: ‘So there we are in this no-horse town strictly from cough syrup.’
PROFESSOR: ‘Coprophilia … gentlemen … might be termed the hurumph …
redundant vice.…’
‘Twenty years an ar st in the blue movies and I never sink so low as fake an
orgasm.’
‘No good junky cunt hang up her unborn child.… Women are no good, kid.’
‘I mean this dead level conscious sex … Might as well take your old clothes to
the Laundromat.…’
‘And right in the heat of passion he says, “Do you have an extra shoe tree?”’
‘She tell me how forty Arabs drag her into a mosque and rape her presumably
in sequence.… Though they’re bad to push – all right, end of the line, Ali. Really,
my pets, most distasteful rou ne I ever listen to. I was a er being raped myself
by a pride of rampant bores.’
A group of sour Na onalists sits in front of the Sargasso sneering at the
queens and jabbering in Arabic.… Clem and Jody sweep in dressed like The
Capitalist in a communist mural.
CLEM: ‘We have come to feed on your backwardness.’
JODY: ‘In the words of the Immortal Bard, to batten on these Moors.’
NATIONALIST: ‘Swine! Filth! Son of dogs! Don’t you realize my people are
hungry?’
CLEM: ‘That’s the way I like to see them.’The Na onalist drops dead, poisoned by hate.… Dr. Benway rushes up: ‘Stand
back everybody, give me air.’ He takes a blood sample. ‘Well, that’s all I can do.
When you gotta go you gotta go.’
The travelling queer Christmas tree burns bright on the rubbish heaps of home
where boys jack oﬀ in the school toilet – how many young spasms on that old
oaken seat worn smooth as gold.…
Sleep long in the valley of the Red River where cobwebs hang black windows
and boy bones.…
Two Negro fags shriek at each other.
FAG 1: ‘Shut up, you cheap granuloma gash.… You known as Loathsome Lu in
the trade.’
DISEUSE: ‘The girl with the innaresting groin.’
FAG 2: ‘Meow. Meow.’ He slips on leopard skin and iron claws.…
FAG 1: ‘Oh oh. A Society Woman.’ He ﬂees screaming through the Market,
pursued by the grunting, growling transvestite.…
Clem trips a spastic cripple and takes his crutches.… He does a hideous parody
twitching and drooling.…
Riot noises in the distance – a thousand hysterical Pomeranians.
Shop shu ers slam like guillo nes. Drinks and trays hang in the air as the
patrons are whisked inside by the suction of panic.
CHORUS OF FAGS: ‘We’ll all be raped. I know it, I know it.’ They rush into a
drugstore and buy a case of KY.
PARTY LEADER (holding up his hand dramatically): ‘The voice of the People.’
Pearson the Money Changeling comes acropping the short grass seized by the
extor onate commandant of Karma, hiding in a vacant lot with the garter snakes,
to be sniffed out by the scrutable dog.…
The Market is empty except for an old drunkard of indeterminate na onality
passed out with his head in a pissoir. The rioters erupt into the Market yiping and
screaming ‘Death to the French’ and tear the drunkard to pieces.
SALVADOR HASSAN (squirming at a keyhole): ‘Just look at those expressions, the
whole beau ful protoplasmic being all exactly alike.’ He dances the
Liquefactionist Jig.
Whimpering queen falls to the ﬂoor in an orgasm. ‘Oh God it’s too exci ng.
Like a million hot throbbing cocks.’
BENWAY: ‘Like to run a blood test on those boys.’
A portentously inconspicuous man, grey beard and grey face and shabby
brown djellaba, sings in slight unplaceable accent without opening his lips:
‘Oh you dolls, you great big beautiful dolls.’
Squads of police with thin lips, big noses and cold grey eyes move into the
Market from every entrance street. They club and kick the rioters with cold,
methodical brutality.
The rioters have been carted away in trucks. The shu ers go up and the
ci zens of Interzone step out into the square li ered with teeth and sandals andslippery with blood.
The sea chest of the dead man is in the Embassy, and the vice consul breaks
the news to mother.
There is no … Morning … Daybreak … n’existe plus.… If I knew I’d be glad to
tell you. Either way is a bad move to the East Wing … He is gone through an
invisible door.… Not here … You can look any place.… No good … No bueno …
Hustling myself.… C’lom Fliday.
(Note: Old me, veteran Schmeckers, faces beaten by grey junk weather, will
remember.… In 1920s a lot of Chinese pushers around found The West so
unreliable, dishonest and wrong, they all packed in, so when an Occidental junky
came to score, they say:
‘No glot.… C’lom Fliday.…’)
Islam Incorporated and the Parties of Interzone
I was working for an ou it known as Islam Inc., ﬁnanced by A. J., the notorious
Merchant of Sex, who scandalized interna onal society when he appeared at the
Duke de Ventre’s ball as a walking penis covered by a huge condom emblazoned
with the A.J. motto ‘They Shall Not Pass.’
‘Rather bad taste, old boy,’ said the Duke.
To which A. J. replied: ‘Up yours with Interzone K.Y.’ The reference is to the
K.Y. scandal which was s ll in a larval state at that me. A.J.’s repartee o en
refers to future events. He is a master of the delayed squelch.
Salvador Hassan O’Leary, the A er Birth Tycoon, is also involved. That is, one
of his subsidiary companies has made unspeciﬁed contribu ons, and one of his
subsidiary personali es is a ached to the organiza on in an advisory capacity
without in any way commi ng himself to, or associa ng himself with, the
policies, ac ons or objec ves of Islam Inc. Men on should also be made of Clem
and Jody, the Ergot Brothers, who decimated the Republic of Hassan with poison
wheat, Autopsy Ahmed, and Hepatitis Hal, the fruit and vegetable broker.
A rout of Mullahs and Mu is and Husseins and Caids and Glaouis and Sheiks
and Sultans and Holy Men and representa ves of every conceivable Arab party
make up the rank and ﬁle and a end the actual mee ngs from which the higher
ups prudently abstain. Though the delegates are carefully searched at the door,
these gatherings invariably culminate in riots. Speakers are o en doused with
gasoline and burned to death, or some uncouth desert Sheik opens up on his
opponents with a machine gun he had concealed in the belly of a pet sheep.
Na onalist martyrs with grenades up the ass mingle with the assembled
conferents and suddenly explode, occasioning heavy casual es.… And there was
the occasion when President Ra threw the Bri sh Prime Minister to the ground
and forcibly sodomized him, the spectacle being televised to the en re Arab
World. Wild yipes of joy were heard in Stockholm. Interzone has an ordinance
forbidding a meeting of Islam Inc. within five miles of the city limits.A. J., – he is actually of obscure Near East extrac on – had at one me come on
like an English gentleman. His English accent waned with the Bri sh Empire, and
a er World War II he became an American by Act of Congress. A. J. is an agent
like me, but for whom or for what no one has ever been able to discover. It is
rumored that he represents a trust of giant insects from another galaxy.… I
believe he is on the Factualist side (which I also represent); of course he could be
a Liquefac on Agent (the Liquefac on program involves the eventual merging of
everyone into One Man by a process of protoplasmic absorp on). You can never
be sure of anyone in the industry.
A. J.’s cover story? An interna onal playboy, and harmless prac cal joker. It
was A. J. who put the piranha ﬁsh in Lady Su on-Smith’s swimming pool, and
dosed the punch with a mixture of Yage, Hashish and Yohimbine during a Fourth
of July recep on at the U.S. Embassy, precipita ng an orgy. Ten prominent
citizens – American, of course – subsequently died of shame. Dying of shame is an
accomplishment peculiar to Kwakiutl Indians and Americans – others simply say
‘Zut alors’ or ‘Son cosas de la vida’ or ‘Allah fucked me, the All Powerful.…’
And when the Cincinna An -Fluoride Society met to toast their victory in
pure spring water, all their teeth dropped out on the spot.
‘And I say unto you, brothers and sisters of the An -Fluoride movement, we
have this day struck such a blow for purity as will never call a retreat.… Out, I say,
with the ﬁlthy foreign ﬂuorides! We will sweep this fair land sweet and clean as a
young boy’s tensed ﬂank.… I will now lead you in our theme song The Old Oaken
Bucket.’
A well head is lighted by ﬂuorescent lights that play over it in hideous juke-box
colors. The An -Fluorides ﬁle past the well singing as each dips up a drink from
the oaken bucket.…
‘The old oaken bucket, the gold oaken bucket
The glublthulunnubbeth …’
A. J. had tampered with the water, inser ng a South American vine that turns
the gums to mush.
(I hear about this vine from an old German prospector who is dying of uremia
in Pasto, Columbia. Supposed to grow in the Putumayo area. Never located any.
Didn’t try very hard.… The same ci zen tells me about a bug like a big grasshopper
known as the Xiucu l: ‘Such a powerful aphrodisiac if one ﬂies on you and you
can’t get a woman right away you will die. I have seen the Indians running around
pulling themselves oﬀ from the contact with this animal.’ Unfortunately I never
score for a Xiucutil.…)
On opening night of the New York Metropolitan A. J., protected by bug
repellent, released a swarm of Xiucutils.
Mrs. Vanderbligh swa ng at a Xiucu l: ‘Oh … Oh! … OOOOOOOOOOOH!!!’
Screams, breaking glass, ripping cloth. A rising crescendo of grunts and squeals
and moans and whimpers and gasps.… Reek of semen and cunts and sweat and
the musty odor of penetrated rectums.… Diamonds and fur pieces, eveningdresses, orchids, suits and underwear li er the ﬂoor covered by a writhing,
frenzied, heaving mass of naked bodies.
A. J. once reserved a table a year in advance Chez Robert where a huge, icy
gourmet broods over the greatest cuisine in the world. So baneful and derogatory
in his gaze that many a client, under that withering blast, has rolled on the ﬂoor
and pissed all over himself in convulsive attempts to ingratiate.
So A. J. arrives with six Bolivian Indians who chew coca leaves between
courses. And when Robert, in all his gourmet majesty, bears down on the table, A.
J. looks up and yells: ‘Hey, Boy! Bring me some ketchup.’
(Alternative: A. J. whips out a bottle of ketchup and douses the haute cuisine.)
Thirty gourmets stop chewing at once. You could have heard a soufflé drop.
As for Robert, he lets out a bellow of rage like a wounded elephant, runs to the
kitchen and arms himself with a meat cleaver.… The Sommelier snarls hideously,
his face turning a strange iridescent purple.… He breaks oﬀa bo le of Brut
Champagne …’26.… Pierre, the Head Waiter, snatches up a boning knife. All three
chase A. J. through the restaurant with mangled inhuman screams of rage.…
Tables overturn, vintage wines and matchless food crash to the ﬂoor.… Cries of
‘Lynch him!’ ring through the air. An elderly gourmet with the insane bloodshot
eyes of a mandril is fashioning a hangman’s knot with a red velvet curtain cord.…
Seeing himself cornered and in imminent danger of dismemberment at least, A. J.
plays his trump card.… He throws back his head and lets out a hog call; and a
hundred famished hogs he had sta oned nearby rush into the restaurant, slopping
the haute cuisine. Like a great tree Robert falls to the floor in a stroke where he is
eaten by the hogs: ‘Poor bastards don’t know enough to appreciate him,’ says A.
J.
Robert’s brother Paul emerges from re rement in a local nut house and takes
over the restaurant to dispense something he calls the ‘Transcendental Cuisine.’
… Impercep bly the quality of the food declines un l he is serving literal garbage,
the clients being too intimidated by the reputation of Chez Robert to protest.
Sample Menu:
The Clear Camel Piss Soup with boiled Earth Worms
The Filet of Sun-Ripened Sting Ray
basted with Eau de Cologne and garnished with nettles
The After-Birth Suprême de Boeuf,
cooked in drained crank case oil,
served with a piquant sauce of rotten egg yolks
and crushed bed bugs
The Limburger Cheese sugar cured in diabetic urine
doused in Canned Heat Flamboyant.…So the clients are quietly dying of botulism.… Then A. J. returns with an
entourage of Arab refugees from the Middle East. He takes one mouthful and
screams:
‘Garbage God damn it. Cook this wise citizen in his own swill!’
And so the legend of A. J. the laughable, lovable eccentric grew and grew.…
Fadeout to Venice.… Gondoliers singing and pathic cries swell up from San Marco
and Harry’s.
Charming old Vene an anecdote about this bridge, it seems some Vene an
sailors take a trip around the world and all turn into fruits they fuck the cabin boy
already, so when they get back to Venice it is necessary women walk over this
bridge with their lungs hanging out to arouse the desires of these dubious citizens.
So get a battalion of shock troops up to San Marco on the double.
‘Girls, this is O.A.O., Opera on All Out. If your ts won’t stop them bring up
your cunts and confound these.’
‘Oh Ger e it’s true. It’s all true. They’ve got a horrid gash instead of a thrilling
thing.’
‘I can’t face it.’
‘Enough to turn a body to stone.’
Paul spoke wiser than he know being a really evil old shit when he talk about
men lying with men doing that which is inconvenient. Inconvenient is the word.
So who want to trip over a cock on the way to a cunt, and when a ci zen get the
yen to hump a gash, some evil stranger rush in and do that which is inconvenient
to his ass.
A. J. rush across San Marco slashing at pigeons with a cutlass: ‘Bastards! Sons
of bitches!’ he screams.… He staggers aboard his barge, a monstrous construc on
in gilt and pink and blue with sails of purple velvet. He is dressed in a preposterous
naval uniform covered with braid and ribbons and medals, dirty and torn, the coat
bu oned in the wrong holes.… A. J. walks to a huge reproduc on of a Greek urn
topped by a gold statue of a boy with an erec on. He twists the boy’s balls and a
jet of champagne spurts into his mouth. He wipes his mouth and looks around.
‘Where are my Nubians, God damn it?’ he yells.
His secretary looks up from a comic book: ‘Juicing.… Chasing cunt.’
‘Goldbricking cocksuckers. Where’s a man without his Nubians?’
‘Take a gondola whyncha?’
‘A gondola?’ A. J. screams. ‘I put out for this cocksucker I should ride in a
gondola already? Reef the mainsail and ship the oars, Mr. Hyslop.… I’m gonna
make with the auxiliary.’ Mr. Hyslop shrugs resignedly. With one ﬁnger he begins
punching a switchboard.… The sails drop, the oars draw into the hull.
‘And turn on the perfume whyncha? The canal stinks up a breeze.’
‘Gardenia? Sandlewood?’
‘Naw. Ambrosia.’ Mr. Hyslop presses another bu on and a thick cloud of
perfume settles over the barge. A. J. is seized with a fit of coughing.…
‘Make with the fans!’ he yells. ‘I’m suﬀoca n’!’ Mr. Hyslop is coughing into ahandkerchief. He presses a bu on. Fans whir and thin out the ambrosia. A. J.
installs himself at the rudder on a raised dais. ‘Contact!’ The barge begins to
vibrate. ‘Avan , God damn it!’ A. J. yells and the barge takes oﬀ across the canal
at a tremendous speed overturning gondolas full of tourists, missing the
motoscaﬁ by inches, veering from one side of the canal to the other (the wake
washes over the sidewalks drenching passersby), sha ering a ﬂeet of moored
gondolas, and ﬁnally piles up against a pier, spins out into the middle of the canal.
… A column of water spurts six feet in the air from a hole in the hull.
‘Man the pumps, Mr. Hyslop. She’s shipping water.’ The barge gives a sudden
lurch throwing A. J. into the canal.
‘Abandon ship, God damn it! Every man for himself!’ Fadeout to Mambo
music.
The inaugura on of Escuela Amigo, a school for delinquent boys of La n
American origin, endowed by A. J., Faculty Boys and press a ending. A. J. staggers
out onto a platform draped with American flags.
‘In the immortal words of Father Flanagan there is no such thing as a bad boy.
… Where’s the statuary, God damn it?’
TECHNICIAN: ‘You want it now?’
A.J.: ‘What you think I’m doing here Furthucrisakes? I should unveil the son of
a bitch in absentia?’
TECHNICIAN: ‘All right … All right. Coming right up.’ The statue is towed out by a
Graham Hymie tractor and placed in front of the pla orm. A. J. presses a bu on.
Turbines start under the pla orm, rising to a deafening whine. Wind blows the
red velvet drapes oﬀ the statue. They tangle around the Faculty members in the
front row.… Clouds of dust and debris whip through the spectators. The sirens
slowly subside. The Faculty disengages itself from the drapes.… Everyone is
looking at the statue in breathless silence.
FATHER GONZALES: ‘Mother of God!’
THE MAN FROM Time: ‘I don’t believe it.’
Daily News: ‘It’s nothing but fruity.’
Chrous of whistles from the boys.
A monumental creation in shiny pink stone stands revealed as the dust settles.
A naked boy is bending over a sleeping comrade with evident inten on to waken
him with a ﬂute. One hand is holding the ﬂute, the other reaching for a piece of
cloth draped over the sleeper’s middle. The cloth bulges sugges vely. Both boys
wear a ﬂower behind the ear, iden cal expressions, dreamy and brutal, depraved
and innocent. This crea on tops a limestone pyramid on which is inscribed in
le ers of porcelain mosaic – pink and blue and gold – the school mo o: ‘With it
and for it.’
A. J. lurches forward and breaks a champagne bo le across the boy’s taut
buttocks.
‘And remember, boys, that’s where champagne comes from.’Manha an Serenade. A. J. and entourage start into New York night club. A. J. is
leading a purple-assed baboon on a gold chain. A. J. is dressed in checked linen
plus fours with cashmere jacket.
MANAGER: ‘Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What’s that?’
A. J.: ‘It’s an Illyrian poodle. Choicest beast a man can latch onto. It’ll raise
the tone of your trap.’
MANAGER: ‘I suspect it to be a purple-assed baboon and it stands outside.’
STOOGE: ‘Don’t you know who this is? It’s A. J., last of the big time spenders.’
MANAGER: ‘Leave him take his purple-assed bastard and big me spend some
place else.’
A. J. stops in front of another club and looks in. ‘Elegant fags and old cunts.
God damn it! We come to the right place. Avanti, ragazzi!’
He drives a gold stake into the ﬂoor and pickets the baboon. He begins talking
in elegant tones, his stooges filling in.
‘Fantastic!’
‘Monstrous!’
‘Utter heaven!’
A. J. puts a long cigare e holder in his mouth. The holder is made of some
obscenely ﬂexible material. It swings and undulates as if endowed with
loathsome reptilian life.
A. J.: ‘So there I was flat on my stomach at thirty thousand feet.’
Several nearby fags raise their heads like animals scen ng danger. A. J. leaps
to his feet with an inarticulate snarl.
‘You purple-assed cocksucker!’ he screams. ‘I’ll teach you to shit on the floor!’
He pulls a whip from his umbrella and cuts the baboon across the ass. The
baboon screams and tears loose the stake. He leaps on the next table and climbs
up an old woman who dies of heart failure on the spot.
A. J.: ‘Sorry, lady. Discipline you know.’
In a frenzy he whips the baboon from one end of the bar to the other. The
baboon, screaming and snarling and shi ng with terror, climbs over the clients,
runs up and down on top of the bar, swings from drapes and chandeliers.…
A. J.: ‘You’ll straighten up and shit right or you won’t be inna condi on to shit
one way or the other.’
STOOGE: ‘You ought to be ashamed of yourself upse n’ A. J. a er all he’s done
for you.’
A. J.: ‘Ingrates! Every one of them ingrates! Take it from an old queen.’
Of course no one believes this cover story. A. J. claims to be an ‘independent,’
which is to say: ‘Mind your own business.’ There are no independents any more.…
The Zone swarms with every variety of dupe but there are no neutrals there. A
neutral at A.J.’s level is of course unthinkable.…
Hassan is a notorious Liquefac onist and suspect to be a secret Sender –
‘Shucks, boys,’ he says with a disarming grin, ‘I’m just a blooming old cancer and I
go a proliferate.’ He picks up a Texas accent associa ng with Dry Hole Du on,the Dallas wildca er, and he wears cowboy boots and ten-gallon hat at all mes
indoors and out.… His eyes are invisible behind black glasses, his face smooth and
blank as wax above a well-cut suit made en rely from immature high
denomina on bank notes. (Bank notes are in fact currency, but they must mature
before they can be nego ated.… Bank notes run as high as one million clams a
note.)
‘They keep hatching out all over me,’ he says shyly.…‘It’s like, gee, I don’t
know how to say it. It’s like I was a Mummy scorpion carrying those li le baby
notes around on my warm body and feeling them grow.… Gosh I hope I don’t
bore you with all this.’
Salvador, known as Sally to his friends – he always keeps a few ‘friends’
around and pays them by the hour – got cured in the slunk business in World War
II. (To get cured means to get rich. Expression used by Texas oil men.) The Pure
Food and Drug Department have his picture in their ﬁles, a heavy faced man with
an embalmed look as if paraﬃn had been injected under the skin which is
smooth, shiny and poreless. One eye is dead grey color, round as a marble, with
ﬂaws and opaque spots. The other is black and shiny, an old undreaming insect
eye.
His eyes are normally invisible behind black glasses. He looks sinister and
enigma c – his gestures and mannerisms are not yet comprehensible – like the
secret police of a larval state.
In moments of excitement Salvador is apt to lapse into broken English. His
accent at such moments suggests an Italian origin. He reads and speaks Etruscan.
A squad of accountant inves gators have made a life work of Sal’s
interna onal dossier.… His opera ons extend through the world in an
inextricable, shi ing web of subsidiaries, front companies, and aliases. He has
held 23 passports and been deported 49 mes – deporta on proceedings pending
in Cuba, Pakistan, Hong Kong and Yokohama.
Salvador Hassan O’Leary, alias The Shoe Store Kid, alias Wrong Way Marv,
alias A er Birth Leary, alias Slunky Pete, alias Placenta Juan, alias K. Y. Ahmed,
alias El Chinche, alias El Culito, etc., etc. for ﬁ een solid pages of dossier, ﬁrst
tangled with the law in NYC where he was traveling with a character known to
the Brooklyn police as Blubber Wilson, who hustled his goof ball money shaking
down fe shists in shoe stores. Hassan was charged some third degree extor on
and conspiracy to impersonate a police oﬃcer. He had learnt the shakeman’s
Number One rule: D.T. – Ditch Tin – which corresponds to the pilot’s KFS – Keep
Flying Speed.… As The Vigilante puts it: ‘If you get a rumble, kid, ditch your piece
of n if you have to swallow it.’ So they didn’t bust him with a queer badge.
Hassan tes ﬁed against Wilson, who drew Pen Indef. (longest term possible
under New York law for a misdemeanor convic on. Nominally an indeﬁnite
sentence, it means three years in Riker’s Island). Hassan’s case was nolle prossed.
‘I’d have drawn a nickel,’ Hassan said, ‘if I hadn’t met a decent cop.’ Hassan met a
decent cop every me he took a fall. His dossier contains three pages ofmonikers indica ng his proclivity for coopera ng with the law, ‘playing ball’ the
cops call it. Others call it something else: Ab the Fuzz Lover, Finky Marv, The
Crooning Hebe, Ali the Stool, Wrongo Sal, The Wailing The Sheeny Soprano,
The Bronx Opera House, The Copper’s Djinn, The Answering Service, The
Squeaking Syrian, The Cooing Cocksucker, The Musical Fruit, The Wrong Ass Hole,
The Fairy Fink, Leary the Nark, The Lilting Leprechaun … Grassy Gert.
He opened a sex shop in Yokohama, pushed junk in Beirut, pimped in Panama.
During World War II he shi ed into high, took over a dairy in Holland and cut the
bu er with used axle grease, cornered the K.Y. market in North Africa, and ﬁnally
hit the jackpot with slunks. He prospered and proliferated, ﬂooding the world
with cut medicines and cheap counterfeit goods of every variety. Adulterated
shark repellent, cut antibiotics, condemned parachutes, stale anti-venom, inactive
serums and vaccines, leaking lifeboats.
Clem and Jody, two old me vaudeville hoofers, cope out as Russian agents
whose sole func on is to represent the U.S. in an unpopular light. When arrested
for sodomy in Indonesia, Clem said to the examining magistrate:
‘’Tain’t as if it was being queer. After all they’s only Gooks.’
They appeared in Liberia dressed in black Stetsons and red galluses:
‘So I shoot that old and he ﬂop on his side one leg up in the air just
akicking.’
‘Yeah, but you ever burn?’
They are always pacing round Bidonvilles smoking huge cigars:
‘Haveta get some bulldozers in here Jody. Clean out all this crap.’
Morbid crowds follow them about hoping to witness some superla ve
American outrage.
‘Thirty years in show business and I never handle such a rou ne like this. I
go a dispossess a Bidonville, give myself a bang of H, piss on the Black Stone,
make with the Prayer Call whilst dressed in my hog suit, cancel Lend Lease and
get fucked up the ass simultaneous.… What, am I an octopus already?’ Clem
complains.
They are conspiring to kidnap the Black Stone with a helicopter and subs tute
a hog pen, the hogs trained to give the Bronx cheer when the pilgrims show. ‘We
try to train them squealing bastards to sing: “Three cheers for the Red White and
Blue,” but it can’t be done.…’
‘We connect for that wheat with Ali Wong Chapultepec in Panama. He tells us
it is a high grade of shit this Finnish skipper die inna local jump joint and leave this
cargo to the madame.…“She was like a mother to me,” he says and those were
his last words.… So we buy it in good faith oﬀ the old gash. Laid ten pieces of H
on her.’
‘Good H too. Good Aleppo H.’
‘Just enough milk sugar to keep her strength up.’
‘We should look a gift horse in the ass already?’
‘Isn’t it true that when you got to Hassan you gave a banquet for the Caid andserved couscous made from the wheat?’
‘We sure did. And you know those ci zens were so loaded on that marijuana
they all wig inna middle of the banquet.… Me, I just had bread and milk … ulcers
you know.’
‘Likewise.’
‘So they all run around screaming they is on ﬁre and the bulk of them die the
following morning.’
‘And the rest the morning after that.’
‘What they expect already when they rot theirselves with Eastern vices?’
‘Funny thing those citizens turn all black and their legs drop off.’
‘Horrible result of marijuana addiction.’
‘The very same thing occurred to me.’
‘So we deal directly with the old Sultan who is being a well-known Latah.
After that everything is plain sailing you might say.’
‘But you wouldn’t believe it, certain disgruntled elements chased us right
down to our launch.’
‘Handicapped somewhat by lack of legs.’
‘And a condition in the head.’
(Ergot is a fungus disease grows on bad wheat. During the Middle Ages Europe
was periodically decimated by outbreaks of Ergo sm which was called St.
Anthony’s Fire. Gangrene frequently supervenes, the legs turn black and drop off.)
They unload a shipment of condemned parachutes on the Ecuadorian Air
Force. Maneuvers: Boys plummet streaming ’chutes like broken condoms splash
young blood over potbellied generals … sha ering wake of sound as Clem and
Jody disappear over the Andes in jet getaway.…
The exact objectives of Islam Inc. are obscure. Needless to say everyone involved
has a diﬀerent angle, and they all intend to cross each other up somewhere along
the line.
A. J. is agita ng for the destruc on of Israel: ‘With all this feeling against the
West a chap has a spot of bother scoring for the young Arab ameni es.… The
situa on is li le short of intolerable.… Israel cons tutes a downright
inconvenience.’ Typical A. J. cover story.
Clem and Jody give out they are interested in the destruc on of Near East oil
fields to boost the value of their Venezuelan holdings.
Clem writes a number to the tune of ‘Crawdad’ (Big Bill Broonzy).
What you gonna do when the oil goes dry?
Gonna sit right there and watch those Arabs die.
Salvador emits a thick screen of interna onal ﬁnance to cloak, at least from
the rank and ﬁle, his Liquefac onist ac vi es.… But over a few s ﬀ yages he lets
his hair down among friends.
‘Islam is jellied consommé already,’ he says, dancing the Liquefac onist Jig.…And then, unable to contain himself, he bursts into a hideous falsetto:
It’s trembling on the brink
One push and down it sink
Hey, Maw, get ready my veil.
‘Well, these ci zens have engaged the services of a Brooklyn Jew who passes
himself oﬀ as the second coming of Mohammed.… In fact Doctor Benway
delivered him by Caesarian section from a Holy Man in Mecca.…
‘If Ahmed won’t come out … We’ll go in and get him.’
This shameless plant is accepted without question by the gullible Arabs.
‘Nice folk, these Arabs.… Nice ignorant folk,’ Clem says.
So this phony gives out with daily Surahs on the radio: ‘Now friends of the
radio audience, this is Ahmed your friendly prophet.… Today I’d like to talk about
the importance of being dainty and kissin’ fresh at all mes.… Friends, use Jody’s
chlorophyll tablets and be sure.’
Now a word about the parties of Interzone.…
It will be immediately clear that the Liquefac on Party is, except for one man,
en rely composed of dupes, it not being clear un l the ﬁnal absorp on who is
whose dupe.… The Liquefac onists are much given to every form of perversion,
especially sadomasochistic practices.
Liquefac onists in general know what the score is. The Senders, on the other
hand, are notorious for their ignorance of the nature and terminal state of
sending, for barbarous and self-righteous manners, and for rabid fear of any fact
– . It was only the interven on of the Factualists that prevented the Senders from
pu ng Einstein in an ins tu on and destroying his theory. It may be said that
only a very few Senders know what they are doing and these top Senders are the
most dangerous and evil men in the world.… Techniques of Sending were crude at
first. Fadeout to the National Electronic Conference in Chicago.
The Conferents are pu ng on their overcoats.… The speaker talks in a ﬂat
shopgirl voice:
‘In closing I want to sound a word of warning.… The logical extension of
encephalographic research is biocontrol; that is control of physical movement,
mental processes, emo onal reac ons and apparent sensory impressions by
means of bioelectric signals injected into the nervous system of the subject.’
‘Louder and funnier!’ The Conferents are trouping out in clouds of dust.
‘Shortly a er birth a surgeon could install connec ons in the brain. A
miniature radio receiver could be plugged in and the subject controlled from
State-controlled transmitters.’
Dust se les through the windless air of a vast empty hall – smell of hot iron
and steam; a radiator sings in the distance.… The Speaker shuﬄes his notes and
blows dust off them.…
‘The biocontrol apparatus is prototype of one-way telepathic control. The
subject could be rendered suscep ble to the transmi er by drugs or otherprocessing without installing any apparatus. Ul mately the Senders will use
telepathic transmi ng exclusively.… Ever dig the Mayan codices? I ﬁgure it like
this: the priests – about one per cent of popula on – made with one-way
telepathic broadcasts instruc ng the workers what to feel and when.… A
telepathic sender has to send all the me. He can never receive, because if he
receives that means someone else who has feelings of his own could louse up his
con nuity. The sender has to send all the me, but he can’t ever recharge himself
by contact. Sooner or later he’s got no feelings to send. You can’t have feelings
alone. Not alone like the Sender is alone – and you dig there can only be one
Sender at one place- me.… Finally the screen goes dead.… The Sender has turned
into a huge cen pede.… So the workers come in on the beam and burn the
cen pede and elect a new Sender by consensus of the general will.… The Mayans
were limited by isola on.… Now one Sender could control the planet…. You see
control can never be a means to any prac cal end.… It can never be a means to
anything but more control.… Like junk … ‘
The Divisionists occupy a mid-way posi on, could in fact be termed moderates.…
They are called Divisionists because they literally divide. They cut oﬀ ny bits of
their ﬂesh and grow exact replicas of themselves in embryo jelly. It seems
probable, unless the process of division is halted, that eventually there will be
only one replica of one sex on the planet: that is one person in the world with
millions of separate bodies.… Are these bodies actually independent, and could
they in me develop varied characteris cs? I doubt it. Replicas must periodically
recharge with the Mother Cell. This is an ar cle of faith with the Divisionists, who
live in fear of a replica revolu on.… Some Divisionists think that the process can
be halted short of the eventual monopoly of one replica. They say: ‘Just let me
plant a few more replicas all over so I won’t be lonely when I travel.… And we
must strictly control the division of Undesirables.…’ Every replica but your own is
eventually an ‘Undesirable.’ Of course if someone starts inunda ng an area with
Iden cal Replicas, everyone knows what is going on. The other ci zens are
subject to declare a ‘Schluppit’ (wholesale massacre of all iden ﬁable replicas).
To avoid extermina on of their replicas, ci zens dye, distort, and alter them with
face and body molds. Only the most abandoned and shameless characters
venture to manufacture I.R.s – Identical Replicas.
A cre nous albino Caid, product of a long line of recessive genes ( ny
toothless mouth lined with black hairs, body of a huge crab, claws instead of
arms, eyes projected on stalks) accumulated 20,000 I.R.s.
‘As far as the eye can see, nothing but replicas,’ he says, crawling around on
his terrace and speaking in strange insect chirps. ‘I don’t have to skulk around like
a nameless asshole growing replicas in my cesspool and sneaking them out
disguised as plumbers and delivery men.… My replicas don’t have their dazzling
beauty marred by plas c surgery and barbarous dye and bleach processes. They
stand forth naked in the sun for all to see, in their incandescent loveliness of
body, face and soul. I have made them in my image and enjoined them toincrease and multiply geometric for they shall inherit the earth.’
A professional witch was called in to make Sheik Aracknid’s replica cultures
forever sterile.… As the witch was preparing to loose a blast of an -orgones,
Benway told him: ‘Don’t knock yourself out. Friedrich’s ataxia will clean out that
replica nest. I studied neurology under Professor Fingerbo om in Vienna … and
he knew every nerve in your body. Magniﬁcent old thing … Came to a s cky end.
… His falling piles blew out the Duc de Ventre’s Hispano Suiza and wrapped
around the rear wheel. He was completely gu ed, leaving an empty shell si ng
there on the giraﬀe skin upholstery.… Even the eyes and brain went with a
horrible schlupping sound. The Duc de Ventre says he will carry that ghastly schlup
to his mausoleum.’
Since there is no sure way to detect a disguised replica (though every
Divisionist has some method he considers infallible) the Divisionists are
hysterically paranoid. If some ci zen ventures to express a liberal opinion
another ci zen invariably snarls: ‘What are you? Some s nking bleached-
out replica?’
The casual es in bar-room ﬁghts are staggering. In fact the fear of Negro
replicas – which may be blond and blue-eyed – has depopulated whole regions.
The Divisionists are all latent or overt homosexuals. Evil old queens tell the young
boys: ‘If you go with a woman your replicas won’t grow.’ And ci zens are forever
pu ng the hex on someone else’s replica cultures. Cries of: ‘Hex my culture will
you, Biddy Blair!’ followed by sound eﬀects of mayhem, con nually ring through
the quarter.… The Divisionists are much given to the prac ce of black magic in
general, and they have innumerable formulas of varying eﬃcacy for destroying
the Mother Cell, also known as the Protoplasm Daddy, by torturing or killing a
captured replica.… The authori es have ﬁnally given up the a empt to control,
among the Divisionists, the crimes of murder and unlicensed produc on of
replicas. But they do stage pre-elec on raids and destroy vast replica cultures in
the mountainous regions of the Zone where replica moonshiners hole up.
Sex with a replica is strictly forbidden and almost universally prac sed. There
are queer bars where shameless citizens openly consort with their replicas. House
detec ves s ck their heads into hotel rooms saying: ‘Have you got a replica in
here?’
Bars subject to be inundated by low class replica lovers put up signs in di o
marks: " " " "s Will Not Be Served Here.… It may be said that the average
Divisionist lives in a con nual crisis of fear and rage, unable to achieve either the
self-righteous complacency of the Senders or the relaxed depravity of the
Liquefac onists.… However the par es are not in prac ce separate but blend in
all combinations.
The Factualists are An -Liquefac onist, An -Divisionist, and above all An -
Sender.
Bulle n of the Coordinate Factualist on the subject of replicas: ‘We must
reject the facile solu on of ﬂooding the planet with “desirable replicas.” It ishighly doub ul if there are any desirable replicas, such creatures cons tu ng an
a empt to circumvent process and change. Even the most intelligent and
gene cally perfect replicas would in all probability cons tute an unspeakable
menace to life on this planet.…’
T.B. – Tenta ve Bulle n – Liquefac on: ‘We must not reject or deny our
protoplasmic core, striving at all mes to maintain a maximum of ﬂexibility
without falling into the morass of liquefac on.…’ Tenta ve and Incomplete
Bulle n: ‘Empha cally we do not oppose telepathic research. In fact, telepathy
properly used and understood could be the ul mate defense against any form of
organized coercion or tyranny on the part of pressure groups or individual control
addicts. We oppose, as we oppose atomic war, the use of such knowledge to
control, coerce, debase, exploit or annihilate the individuality of another living
creature. Telepathy is not, by its nature, a one-way process. To a empt to set up
a one-way telepathic broadcast must be regarded as an unqualified evil.…’
D.B. – Deﬁni ve Bulle n: ‘The Sender will be deﬁned by nega ves. A low
pressure area, a sucking emp ness. He will be portentously anonymous, faceless,
colorless. He will – probably – be born with smooth disks of skin instead of eyes.
He always knows where he is going like a virus knows. He doesn’t need eyes.’
‘Couldn’t there be more than one Sender?’
‘Oh yes, many of them at ﬁrst. But not for long. Some maudlin ci zens will
think they can send something edifying, not realizing that sending is evil. Scien sts
will say: “Sending is like atomic power…. If properly harnessed.” At this point an
anal technician mixes a bicarbonate of soda and pulls the switch that reduces the
earth to cosmic dust. (“Belch … They’ll hear this fart on Jupiter.”) … Ar sts will
confuse sending with crea on. They will camp around screeching “A new
medium” un l their ra ng drops oﬀ.… Philosophers will bat around the ends and
means hassle not knowing that sending can never be a means to anything but
more sending, like Junk. Try using junk as a means to something else.… Some
dozens with “Coca Cola and aspirin” control habits will be talking about the evil
glamor of sending. But no one will talk about anything very long. The Sender, he
don’t like talking.’
The Sender is not a human individual.… It is The Human Virus. (All viruses are
deteriorated cells leading a parasi c existence.… They have speciﬁc aﬃnity for
the Mother Cell; thus deteriorated liver cells seek the home place of hepa s,
etc. So every species has a Master Virus: Deteriorated Image of that species.)
The broken image of Man moves in minute by minute and cell by cell.…
Poverty, hatred, war, police-criminals, bureaucracy, insanity, all symptoms of The
Human Virus.
The Human Virus can now be isolated and treated.
The County Clerk
The County Clerk has his oﬃce in a huge red brick building known as the OldCourt House. Civil cases are, in fact, tried there, the proceeding inexorably
dragging out until the contestants die or abandon li ga on. This is due to the vast
number of records pertaining to absolutely everything, all ﬁled in the wrong place
so that no one but the County Clerk and his staﬀ of assistants can ﬁnd them, and
he o en spends years in the search. In fact, he is s ll looking for material rela ve
to a damage suit that was se led out of court in 1910. Large sec ons of the Old
Court House have fallen in ruins, and others are highly dangerous owing to
frequent cave-ins. The County Clerk assigns the more dangerous missions to his
assistants, many of whom have lost their lives in the service. In 1912 two hundred
and seven assistants were trapped in a collapse of the North-by-North-East wing.
When suit is brought against anyone in the Zone, his lawyers connive to have
the case transferred to the Old Court House. Once this is done, the plain ﬀ has
lost the case, so the only cases that actually go to trial in the Old Court House are
those ins gated by eccentrics and paranoias who want ‘a public hearing,’ which
they rarely get since only the most desperate famine of news will bring a reporter
to the Old Court House.
The Old Court House is located in the town of Pigeon Hole outside the urban
zone. The inhabitants of this town and the surrounding area of swamps and
heavy mber are people of such great stupidity and such barbarous prac ces that
the Administra on has seen ﬁt to quaran ne them in a reserva on surrounded by
a radioac ve wall of iron bricks. In retalia on the ci zens of Pigeon Hole plaster
their town with signs: ‘Urbanite Don’t Let The Sun Set On You Here,’ an
unnecessary injunction, since nothing but urgent business would take any urbanite
to Pigeon Hole.
Lee’s case is urgent. He has to ﬁle an immediate aﬃdavit that he is suﬀering
from bubonic plague to avoid evic on from the house he has occupied ten years
without paying the rent. He exists in perpetual quaran ne. So he packs his
suitcase of aﬃdavits and pe ons and injunc ons and cer ﬁcates and takes a
bus to the Fron er. The Urbanite customs inspector waves him through: ‘I hope
you’ve got an atom bomb in that suitcase.’
Lee swallows a handful of tranquilizing pills and steps into the Pigeon Hole
customs shed. The inspectors spend three hours pawing through his papers,
consul ng dusty books of regula ons and du es from which they read
incomprehensible and ominous excerpts ending with: ‘And as such is subject to
fine and penalty under act 666.’ They look at him significantly.
They go through his papers with a magnifying glass.
‘Sometimes they slip dirty limericks between the lines.’
‘Maybe he ﬁgure to sell them for toilet paper. Is this crap for your own
personal use?’
‘Yes.’
‘He says yes.’
‘And how do we know that?’
‘I gotta affidavit.’‘Wise guy. Take off your clothes.’
‘Yeah. Maybe he got dirty tattoos.’
They paw over his body probing his ass for contraband and examine it for
evidence of sodomy. They dunk his hair and send the water out to be analyzed.
‘Maybe he’s got dope in his hair.’
Finally, they impound his suitcase; and he staggers out of the shed with a ﬁ y
pound bale of documents.
A dozen or so Recordites sit on the Old Court House steps of ro en wood.
They watch his approach with pale blue eyes, turning their heads slow on
wrinkled necks (the wrinkles full of dust) to follow his body up the steps and
through the door. Inside, dust hangs in the air like fog, si ing down from the
ceiling, rising in clouds from the ﬂoor as he walks. He mounts a perilous staircase
– condemned in 1929. Once his foot goes through, and the dry splinters tear into
the ﬂesh of his leg. The staircase ends in a painter’s scaﬀold, a ached with
frayed rope and pullies to a beam almost invisible in dusty distance. He pulls
himself up cau ously to a ferris wheel cabin. His weight sets in mo on hydraulic
machinery (sound of running water). The wheel moves smooth and silent to stop
by a rusty iron balcony, worn through here and there like an old shoe sole. He
walks down a long corridor lined with doors, most of them nailed or boarded
shut. In one oﬃce, Near East Exquisitries on a green brass plaque, the Mugwump
is catching termites with his long black tongue. The door of the County Clerk’s
oﬃce is open. The County Clerk sits inside gumming snuﬀ, surrounded by six
assistants. Lee stands in the doorway. The County Clerk goes on talking without
looking up.
‘I run into Ted Spigot the other day … a good old boy, too. Not a ﬁner man in
the Zone than Ted Spigot.… Now it was a Friday I happen to remember because
the Old Lady was down with the menstral cramps and I went to Doc Parker’s
drugstore on Dalton Street, just opposite Ma Green’s Ethical Massage Parlor,
where Jed’s old livery stable used to be.… Now, Jed, I’ll remember his second
name directly, had a cast in the le eye and his wife came from some place out
East, Algiers I believe it was, and a er Jed died she married up again, and she
married one of the Hoot boys, Clem Hoot if my memory serves, a good old boy
too, now Hoot was around ﬁ y-four ﬁ y-ﬁve year old at the me.… So I says to
Doc Parker: “My old lady is down bad with the menstral cramps. Sell me two
ounces of paregoric.”
‘So Doc says, “Well, Arch, you go a sign the book. Name, address and date of
purchase. It’s the law.”
‘So I asked Doc what the day was, and he said, “Friday the 12th.”
‘So I said, “I guess I already had mine.”
‘“Well,” Doc says, “there was a feller in here this morning. City feller. Dressed
kinda ﬂashy. So he’s got him a RX for a mason jar of morphine.… Kinda funny
looking prescrip on writ out on toilet paper.… And I told him straight out: ‘Mister,
I suspect you to be a dope fiend.’‘“‘I got the ingrowing toe nails, Pop. I’m in agony,’ he says.
‘“‘Well,’ I says, ‘I go a be careful. But so long as you got a legi mate
condition and an RX from a certified bona feedy M.D., I’m honored to serve you.’
‘“‘That croaker’s really cer ﬁed,’ he say.… Well, I guess one hand didn’t know
what the other was doing when I give him ajar of Saniﬂush by error.… So I reckon
he’s had his too.”
‘“Just the thing to clean a man’s blood.”
‘“You know, that very thing occurred to me. Should be a sight be er than
sulphur and molasses.… Now, Arch, don’t think I’m nosey; but a man don’t have
no secrets from God and his druggist I always say.… Is you s ll humping the Old
Gray Mare?”
‘“Why, Doc Parker … I’ll have you know I’m a family man and an Elder in the
First Denomina onal Nonsextarian Church and I ain’t had a piecea hoss ass since
we was kids together.”
‘“Them was the days, Arch. Remember the me I got the goose grease mixed
up with the mustard? Always was a one to grab the wrong jar, feller say. They
could have heard you squealing over in Cunt Lick County, just a squealing like a
stoat with his stones cut off.”
‘“You’re in the wrong hole, Doc. It was you took the mustard and me as had
to wait till you cooled off.”
‘“Wis ul thinking, Arch. I read about it one me inna magazin se n’ in that
green out house behind the sta on.… Now what I meant awhile back, Arch, you
didn’t rightly understand me.… I was referring to your wife as the Old Gray Mare.
… I mean she ain’t what she used to be what with all them carbuncles and
cataracts and chilblains and hemorrhoids and aftosa.”
‘“Yas, Doc, Liz is right sickly. Never was the same a er her eleventh
miscarriaging.… There was something right strange about that Doc Ferris he told
me straight, he said: ‘Arch, ‘tain’t ﬁ ng you should see that cri er.’ And he gives
me a long look made my ﬂesh crawl.… Well, you sure said it right. Doc. She ain’t
what she used to be. And your medicines don’t seem to ease her none. In fact,
she ain’t been able to tell night from day since using them eye drops you sold her
last month.… But, Doc, you oughta know I wouldn’t be humping Liz, the old cow,
meaning no disrespect to the mother of my dead monsters. Not when I got that
sweet li le ol’ ﬁ een year old thing.… You know that yaller girl used to work in
Marylou’s Hair Straightening and Skin Bleach Parlor over in Nigga town.”
‘“Getting that dark chicken meat, Arch? Gettin’ that coon pone?”
‘“Ge n’ it steady, Doc. Ge n’ it steady. Well, feller say duty is goosing me.
Gotta get back to the old crank case.”
‘“I’ll bet she needs a grease job worst way.”
‘“Doc, she sure is a dry hole.… Well, thanks for the paregoric.”
‘“And thanks for the trade. Arch.… He he he … Say, Archy boy, some night
when you get caught short with a rusty load drop around and have a drink of
Yohimbiny with me.”‘“I’ll do that, Doc, I sure will. It’ll be just like old times.”
‘So I went on back to my place and heated up some water and mixed up some
paregoric and cloves and cinnamon and sassyfrass and give it to Liz, and it eased
her some I reckon. Leastwise she let up aggrava n’ me.… Well, later on I went
down to Doc Parker’s again to get me a rubber … and just as I was leaving I run
into Roy Bane, a good ol’ boy too. There’s not a ﬁner man in this Zone than Roy
Bane.… So he said to me he says, “Arch, you see that ol’ over there in that
vacant lot? Well, sure as shit and taxes, he comes there every night just as regular
you can set your watch by him. See him behind them ne les? Every night round
about eight thirty he goes over into that lot yonder and pulls himself oﬀ with
steel wool.… Preachin’ they tell me.”
‘So that’s how I come to know the hour more or less on Friday the 13th and it
couldn’t have been more than twenty minutes half an hour a er that, I’d took
some Spanish Fly in Doc’s store and it was jest beginning to work on me down by
Grennel Bog on my way to town.… Well the bog makes a bend, used to be
shack there.… They burned that ol’ over in Cunt Lick. Had the
a osa and it le him stone blind.… So this white girl down from Texarkana
screeches out:
‘“Roy, that ol’ is looking at me so nasty. Land’s sake I feel just dirty all
over.”
‘“Now, Sweet Thing, don’t you fret yourself. Me an’ the boys will burn him.”
‘“Do it slow, Honey Face. Do it slow. He’s give me a sick headache.”
‘So they burned the and that ol’ boy took his wife and went back up to
Texarkana without paying for the gasoline and old Whispering Lou runs the
service sta on couldn’t talk about nothing else all Fall: “These city fellers come
down here and burn a and don’t even settle up for the gasoline.”
‘Well, Chester Hoot tore that shack down and rebuilt it just back of his
house up in Bled Valley. Covered up all the windows with black cloth, and what
goes on in there ain’t ﬁ n’ to speak of.… Now Chester he’s got some right
strange ways.… Well it was just where the shack used to be, right across
from the Old Brooks place ﬂoods out every Spring, only it wasn’t the Brooks place
then … belonged to a feller name of Scranton. Now that piece of land was
surveyed back in 1919.… I reckon you know the man did the job too.… Feller
name of Hump Clarence used to witch out wells on the side.… Good ol’ boy too,
not a ﬁner man in this Zone than Hump Clarence.… Well it was just around about
in there I come on Ted Spigot a-screwin’ a mud puppy.’
Lee cleared his throat. The Clerk looked up over his glasses. ‘Now if you’ll
take care, young feller, till I finish what I’m asaying, I’ll tend to your business.’
And he plunged into an anecdote about a nigra got the hydrophobia from a
cow.
‘So my pappy says to me: “Finish up your chores, son, and let’s go see the mad
.…” They had that chained to the bed, and he was bawling like a cow.
… I soon got enough of that ol’ Well, if you all will excuse me I got businessin the Privy Council. He he he!’
Lee listened in horror. The County Clerk o en spent weeks in the privy living
on scorpions and Montgomery Ward catalogues. On several occasions his
assistants had forced the door and carried him out in an advanced state of
malnutrition. Lee decided to play his last card.
‘Mr. Anker,’ he said, ‘I’m appealing to you as one Razor Back to another,’ and
he pulled out his Razor Back card, a memo of his lush-rolling youth.
The Clerk looked at the card suspiciously: ‘You don’t look like a bone feed
mast-fed Razor Back to me.… What you think about the Jeeeeews.…?’
‘Well, Mr. Anker, you know yourself all a Jew wants to do is doodle a Christian
girl.… One of these days we’ll cut the rest of it off.’
‘Well, you talk right sensible for a city feller.… Find out what he wants and
take care of him.… He’s a good ol’boy.’
Interzone
The only na ve in Interzone who is neither queer nor available is Andrew Keif’s
chauﬀeur, which is not aﬀecta on or perversity on Keif’s part, but a useful
pretext to break oﬀ rela ons with anyone he doesn’t want to see: ‘You made a
pass at Aracknid last night. I can’t have you to the house again.’ People are
always blacking out in the Zone, whether they drink or not, and no one can say
for sure he didn’t make a pass at Aracknid’s unappetizing person.
Aracknid is a worthless chauﬀeur, barely able to drive. On one occasion he
ran down a pregnant woman in from the mountains with a load of charcoal on
her back, and she miscarriaged a bloody, dead baby in the street, and Keif got out
and sat on the curb s rring the blood with a s ck while the police ques oned
Aracknid and finally arrested the woman for a violation of the Sanitary Code.
Aracknid is a grimly una rac ve young man with a long face of a strange,
slate-blue color. He has a big nose and great yellow teeth like a horse. Anybody
can ﬁnd an a rac ve chauﬀeur, but only Andrew Keif could have found Aracknid;
Keif the brilliant, decadent young novelist who lives in a remodeled pissoir in the
red light district of the Native Quarter.
The Zone is a single, vast building. The rooms are made of a plas c cement
that bulges to accommodate people, but when too many crowd into one room
there is a so plop and someone squeezes through the wall right into the next
house, the next bed that is, since the rooms are mostly bed where the business of
the Zone is transacted. A hum of sex and commerce shakes the Zone like a vast
hive:
‘Two thirds of one percent. I won’t budge from that ﬁgure; not even for my
bumpkins.’
‘But where are the bills of lading, lover?’
‘Not where you’re looking, pet. That’s too obvious.’
‘A bale of levies with built-in falsie baskets. Made in Hollywood.’‘Hollywood, Siam.’
‘Well American style.’
‘What’s the commission? … The commission.… The Commission.’
‘Yes, nugget, a shipload of K.Y. made of genuine whale dreck in the South
Atlan c at present quaran ned by the Board of Health in Tierra del Fuego. The
commission, my dear! If we can pull this oﬀ we’ll be in clover.’ (Whale dreck is
reject material that accumulates in the process of cu ng up a whale and cooking
it down. A horrible, ﬁshy mess you can smell for miles. No one has found any use
for it.)
Interzone Imports Unlimited, which consists of Marvie and Leif The Unlucky,
had latches onto the K.Y. deal. In fact they specialize in pharmaceu cals and run
a 24-hour Pro sta on, six ways coverage fore and a , as a side line. (Six separate
venereal diseases have been identified to date.)
They plunge into the deal. They form unmen onable services for a spas c
Greek shipping agent, and one en re shi of Customs inspectors. The two
partners fall out and ﬁnally denounce each other in the Embassy where they are
referred to the We Don’t Want To Hear About It Department, and eased out a
back door into a shit-strewn vacant lot, where vultures ﬁght over ﬁsh heads. They
flail at each other hysterically.
‘You’re trying to fuck me out of my commission!’
‘Your commission! Who smelled out this good thing in the first place?’
‘But I have the bill of lading.’
‘Monster! But the check will be made out in my name.’
‘Bawstard! You’ll never see the bill of lading un l my cut is deposited in
escrow.’
‘Well, might as well kiss and make up. There’s nothing mean or pe y about
me.’
They shake hands without enthusiasm and peck each other on the cheek. The
deal drags on for months. They engage the services of an Expeditor. Finally
Marvie emerges with a check for 42 Turkestan kurds drawn on an anonymous
bank in South America, to clear through Amsterdam, a procedure that will take
eleven months more or less.
Now we can relax in the cafés of The Plaza. He shows a photosta c copy of
the check. He would never show the original of course, lest some envious ci zen
spit ink eradicator on the signature or otherwise mutilate the check.
Everyone asks him to buy drinks and celebrate, but he laughs jovially and says,
‘Fact is I can’t aﬀord to buy myself a drink. I already spent every kurd of it buying
Penstrep for Ali’s clap. He’s down with it fore and a again. I came near kicking
the li le bastard right through the wall into the next bed. But you all know what a
sentimental old thing I am.’
Marvie does buy himself a shot glass of beer, squeezing a blackened coin out
of his ﬂy onto the table. ‘Keep the change.’ The waiter sweeps the coin into a
dust pan, he spits on the table and walks away.‘Sore head! He’s envious of my check.’
Marvie had been in Interzone since ‘the year before one’ as he put it. He had
been re red from some unspeciﬁed posi on in the State Dept. ‘for the good of
the service.’ Obviously he had once been very good looking in a crew-cut, college
boy way, but his face had sagged and formed lumps under the chin like mel ng
paraffin. He was getting heavy around the hips.
Leif The Unlucky was a tall, thin Norwegian, with a patch over one eye, his
face congealed in a permanent, ingra a ng smirk. Behind him lay an epic saga of
unsuccessful enterprises. He had failed at raising frogs, chinchilla, Siamese
ﬁgh ng ﬁsh, rami and culture pearls. He had a empted, variously and without
success, to promote a Love Bird Two-in-a-Coﬃn Cemetery, to corner the
condom market during the rubber shortage, to run a mail order whore house, to
issue pencillin as a patent medicine. He had followed disastrous be ng systems
in the casinos of Europe and the race tracks of the U.S. His reverses in business
were matched by the incredible mischances of his personal life. His front teeth
had been stomped out by bes al American sailors in Brooklyn. Vultures had eaten
out an eye when he drank a pint of paregoric and passed out in a Panama City
park. He had been trapped between ﬂoors in an elevator for ﬁve days with an oil-
burning junk habit and sustained an a ack of D.T.s while stowing away in a foot
locker. Then there was the me he collapsed with strangulated intes nes,
perforated ulcers and peritoni s in Cairo and the hospital was so crowded they
bedded him in the latrine, and the Greek surgeon goofed and sewed up a live
monkey in him, and he was gang-fucked by the Arab a endants, and one of the
orderlies stole the penicillin subs tu ng Saniﬂush; and the me he got clap in his
ass and a self-righteous English doctor cured him with an enema of hot, sulphuric
acid, and the German prac oner of Technological Medicine who removed his
appendix with a rusty can opener and a pair of n snips (he considered the germ
theory ‘a nonsense’). Flushed with success he then began snipping and cu ng out
everything in sight: ‘The human body is ﬁlled up vit unnecessitated parts. You can
get by vit von kidney. Vy have two? Yes dot is a kidney … The inside parts should
not be so close in together crowded. They need Lebensraum like the Vaterland.’
The Expeditor had not yet been paid, and Marvie was faced by the prospect
of stalling him for eleven months un l the check cleared. The Expeditor was said
to have been born on the Ferry between the Zone and the Island. His profession
was to expedite the delivery of merchandise. No one knew for sure whether his
services were of any use or not, and to men on his name always precipitated an
argument. Cases were cited to prove his miraculous eﬃciency and u er
worthlessness.
The Island was a Bri sh Military and Naval sta on directly opposite the Zone.
England holds the Island on yearly rent-free lease, and every year the lease and
permit of residence is formally renewed. The en re popula on turns out,
a endance is compulsory, and gathers at the municipal dump. The President of
the Island is required by custom to crawl across the garbage on his stomach anddeliver the Permit of Residence and Renewal of the Lease, signed by every ci zen
of the Island, to The Resident Governor who stands resplendent in dress uniform.
The Governor takes the permit and shoves it into his coat pocket:
‘Well,’ he says with a tight smile, ‘so you’ve decided to let us stay another year
have you? Very good of you. And everyone is happy about it? … Is there anyone
who isn’t happy about it?’
Soldiers in jeeps sweep mounted machine-guns back and forth across the
crowd with a slow, searching movement.
‘Everbody happy. Well that’s ﬁne.’ He turns jovially to the prostrate President.
‘I’ll keep your papers in case I get caught short. Haw Haw Haw.’ His loud, metallic
laugh rings out across the dump, and the crowd laughs with him under the
searching guns.
The forms of democracy are scrupulously enforced on the Island. There is a
Senate and a Congress who carry on endless sessions discussing garbage disposal
and outhouse inspec on, the only two ques ons over which they have
jurisdic on. For a brief period in the mid-nineteenth century, they had been
allowed to control the Department of Baboon Maintenance, but this privilege had
been withdrawn owing to absenteeism in the Senate.
The purple-assed Tripoli baboons had been brought to the Island by pirates in
the 17th century. There was a legend that when the baboons le the Island it
would fall. To whom or in what way is not speciﬁed, and it is a capital oﬀense to
kill a baboon, though the noxious behaviour of these animals harries the ci zens
almost beyond endurance. Occasionally someone goes berserk, kills several
baboons and himself.
The post of President is always forced on some par cularly noxious and
unpopular ci zen. To be elected President is the greatest misfortune and disgrace
that can befall an Islander. The humilia ons and ignominy are such that few
Presidents live out their full term of oﬃce, usually dying of a broken spirit a er a
year or two. The Expeditor had once been President and served the full ﬁve years
of his term. Subsequently he changed his name and underwent plas c surgery, to
blot out, as far as possible, the memory of his disgrace.
‘Yes of course … we’ll pay you,’ Marvie was saying to the Expeditor.
‘But take it easy. It may be a little while yet.…’
‘Take it easy! A little while! … Listen.’
‘Yes I know it all. The ﬁnance company is repossessing your wife’s ar ﬁcial
kidney.… They are evicting your grandmother from her iron lung.’
‘That’s in rather bad taste, old boy.… Frankly I wish I had never involved
myself in this uh ma er. That bloody grease has too much carbolic in it. I was
down to customs one day last week. Stuck a broom handle into a drum of it, and
the grease ate the end oﬀ straight away. Besides, the s nk is enough to knock a
man on his bloody ass. You should take a walk down by the port.’
‘I’ll do no such thing,’ Marvie screeched. It is a mark of caste in the Zone never
to touch or even go near what you are selling. To do so gives rise to suspicion ofretailing, that is of being a common peddler. A good part of the merchandise in
the Zone is sold through street peddlers.
‘Why do you tell me all this? It’s too sordid! Let the retailers worry about it.’
‘Oh it’s all very well for you chaps, you can scud out from under. But I have a
reputation to maintain.… There’ll be a spot of bother about this.’
‘Do you suggest there is something illegitimate in this operation?’
‘Not illegitimate exactly. But shoddy. Definitely shoddy.’
‘Oh go back to your Island before it falls! We knew you when you were
peddling your purple ass in the Plaza pissoirs for five pesetas.’
‘And not many takers either,’ Leif put in. He pronounced it ither. This
reference to his Island origin was more than the Expeditor could stand.… He was
drawing himself up, mobilizing his most frigid impersona on of an English
aristocrat, preparing to deliver an icy, clipped ‘crusher,’ but instead, a whining,
whimpering, kicked dog snarl broke from his mouth. His pre-surgery face emerged
in an arc-light of incandescent hate.… He began to spit curses in the hideous,
strangled gutturals of the Island dialect.
The Islanders all profess ignorance of the dialect or ﬂatly deny its existence.
‘We are Breetish,’ they say. ‘We don’t got no bloody dealect.’
Froth gathered at the corners of the Expeditor’s mouth. He was spi ng li le
balls of saliva like pieces of co on. The stench of spiritual vileness hung in the
airs about him like a green cloud. Marvie and Leif fell back twittering in alarm.
‘He’s gone mad,’ Marvie gasped. ‘Let’s get out of here.’ Hand in hand they skip
away into the mist that covers the Zone in the winter months like a cold Turkish
Bath.
The Examination
Carl Peterson found a postcard in his box reques ng him to report for a ten
o’clock appointment with Doctor Benway in the Ministry of Mental Hygiene and
Prophylaxis.…
‘What on earth could they want with me?’ he thought irritably.…‘A mistake
most likely.’ But he knew they didn’t make mistakes.… Certainly not mistakes of
identity.…
It would not have occurred to Carl to disregard the appointment even though
failure to appear entailed no penalty.… Freeland was a welfare state. If a ci zen
wanted anything from a load of bone meal to a sexual partner some department
was ready to oﬀer eﬀec ve aid. The threat implicit in this enveloping
benevolence stifled the concept of rebellion.…
Carl walked through the Town Hall Square.… Nickel nudes sixty feet high with
brass genitals soaped themselves under gleaming showers.… The Town Hall
cupola, of glass brick and copper crashed into the sky.
Carl stared back at a homosexual American tourist who dropped his eyes and
fumbled with the light filters of his Leica.…Carl entered the steel enamel labyrinth of the Ministry, strode to the
information desk … and presented his card.
‘Fifth floor … Room twenty-six …’
In room twenty-six a nurse looked at him with cold undersea eyes.
‘Doctor Benway is expecting you,’ she said smiling. ‘Go right in.’
‘As if he had nothing to do but wait for me,’ thought Carl.…
The oﬃce was completely silent, and ﬁlled with milky light. The doctor shook
Carl’s hand, keeping his eyes on the young man’s chest.…
‘I’ve seen this man before,’ Carl thought.…‘But where?’
He sat down and crossed his legs. He glanced at an ashtray on the desk and lit
a cigare e.… He turned to the doctor a steady inquiring gaze in which there was
more than a touch of insolence.
The doctor seemed embarrassed.… He ﬁdgeted and coughed … and fumbled
with papers.…
‘Hurumph,’ he said finally.…‘Your name is Carl Peterson I believe.…’ His glasses
slid down into his nose in parody of the academic manner.… Carl nodded silently.
… The doctor did not look at him but seemed none the less to register the
acknowledgement.… He pushed his glasses back into place with one ﬁnger and
opened a file on the white enamelled desk.
‘Mmmmmmmm. Carl Peterson,’ he repeated the name caressingly, pursed his
lips and nodded several mes. He spoke again abruptly: ‘You know of course that
we are trying. We are all trying. Some mes of course we don’t succeed.’ His
voice trailed oﬀ thin and tenuous. He put a hand to his forehead. ‘To adjust the
state – simply a tool – to the needs of each individual ci zen.’ His voice boomed
out so unexpectedly deep and loud that Carl started. ‘That is the only func on of
the state as we see it. Our knowledge … incomplete, of course,’ he made a slight
gesture of depreciation.…‘For example … for example … take the ma er of the uh
sexual devia on.’ The doctor rocked back and forth in his chair. His glasses slid
down onto his nose. Carl felt suddenly uncomfortable.
‘We regard it as a misfortune … a sickness … certainly nothing to be censored
or uh sanctioned any more than say … tuberculosis.… Yes,’ he repeated firmly as if
Carl had raised an objec on.… ‘Tuberculosis. On the other hand you can readily
see that any illness imposes certain, should we say obligations, certain necessities
of a prophylac c nature on the authori es concerned with public health, such
necessi es to be imposed, needless to say, with a minimum of inconvenience and
hardship to the unfortunate individual who has, through no fault of his own,
become uh infected.… That is to say, of course, the minimum hardship
compa ble with adequate protec on of other individuals who are not so
infected.… We do not ﬁnd obligatory vaccina on for smallpox an unreasonable
measure.… Nor isola on for certain contagious diseases.… I am sure you will
agree that individuals infected with hrumph what the French call “les malades
gallants” heh heh heh should be compelled to undergo treatment if they do not
report voluntarily.’ The doctor went on chuckling and rocking in his chair like amechanical toy.… Carl realized that he was expected to say something.
‘That seems reasonable,’ he said.
The doctor stopped chuckling. He was suddenly mo onless. ‘Now to get back
to this uh matter of sexual devia on. Frankly we don’t pretend to understand – at
least not completely – why some men and women prefer the uh sexual company
of their own sex. We do know that the uh phenomena is common enough, and,
under certain circumstances a matter of uh concern to this department.’
For the ﬁrst me the doctor’s eyes ﬂickered across Carl’s face. Eyes without a
trace of warmth or hate or any emotion that Carl had ever experienced in himself
or seen in another, at once cold and intense, predatory and impersonal. Carl
suddenly felt trapped in this silent underwater cave of a room, cut oﬀ from all
sources of warmth and certainty. His picture of himself si ng there calm, alert
with a trace of well mannered contempt went dim, as if vitality were draining out
of him to mix with the milky grey medium of the room.
‘Treatment of these disorders is, at the present me, hrumph symptoma c.’
The doctor suddenly threw himself back in his chair and burst into peals of
metallic laughter. Carl watched him appalled.…‘The man is insane,’ he thought.
The doctor’s face went blank as a gambler’s. Carl felt an odd sensa on in his
stomach like the sudden stopping of an elevator.
The doctor was studying the ﬁle in front of him. He spoke in a tone of slightly
condescending amusement:
‘Don’t look so frightened, young man. Just a professional joke. To say
treatment is symptoma c means there is none, except to make the pa ent feel
as comfortable as possible. And that is precisely what we a empt to do in these
cases.’ Once again Carl felt the impact of that cold interest on his face. ‘That is to
say reassurance when reassurance is necessary … and, of course, suitable outlets
with other individuals of similar tendencies. No isola on is indicated … the
condi on is no more directly contagious than cancer. Cancer, my ﬁrst love,’ the
doctor’s voice receded. He seemed actually to have gone away through an
invisible door leaving his empty body sitting there at the desk.
Suddenly he spoke again in a crisp voice. ‘And so you may well wonder why
we concern ourselves with the ma er at all?’ He ﬂashed a smile bright and cold
as snow in sunlight.
Carl shrugged: ‘That is not my business … what I am wondering is why you
have asked me to come here and why you tell me all this … this …’
‘Nonsense?’
Carl was annoyed to find himself blushing.
The doctor leaned back and placed the ends of his fingers together:
‘The young,’ he said indulgently. ‘Always they are in a hurry. One day perhaps
you will learn the meaning of pa ence. No, Carl.… I may call you Carl? I am not
evading your ques on. In cases of suspected tuberculosis we – that is the
appropriate department – may ask, even request, someone to appear for a
ﬂuoroscopic examina on. This is rou ne, you understand. Most suchexamina ons turn up nega ve. So you have been asked to report here for, should
I say a psychic ﬂuoroscope???? I may add that a er talking with you I feel
relatively sure that the result will be, for practical purposes, negative.…’
‘But the whole thing is ridiculous. I have always interested myself only in girls.
I have a steady girl now and we plan to marry.’
‘Yes Carl, I know. And that is why you are here. A blood test prior to marriage,
this is reasonable, no?’
‘Please doctor, speak directly.’
The doctor did not seem to hear. He dri ed out of his chair and began
walking around behind Carl, his voice languid and intermi ent like music down a
windy street.
‘I may tell you in strictest conﬁdence that there is deﬁnite evidence of a
hereditary factor. Social pressure. Many homosexuals latent and overt do,
unfortunately, marry. Such marriages o en result in … Factor of infan le
environment.’ The doctor’s voice went on and on. He was talking about
schizophrenia, cancer, hereditary dysfunction of the hypothalamus.
Carl dozed oﬀ. He was opening a green door. A horrible smell grabbed his
lungs and he woke up with a shock. The doctor’s voice was strangely ﬂat and
lifeless, a whispering junky voice:
‘The Kleiberg-Stanislouski semen ﬂocula on test … a diagnos c tool …
indica ve at least in a nega ve sense. In certain cases useful – taken as part of
the whole picture.… Perhaps under the uh circumstances.’ The doctor’s voice shot
up to a pathic scream. ‘The nurse will take your uh specimen.’
‘This way please.…’ The nurse opened the door into a bare white walled
cubicle. She handed him a jar.
‘Use this please. Just yell when you’re ready.’
There was a jar of K.Y. on a glass shelf. Carl felt ashamed as if his mother had
laid out a handkerchief for him. Some coy li le message s tched on like: ‘If I was
a cunt we could open a dry goods store.’
Ignoring the K.Y., he ejaculated into the jar, a cold brutal fuck of the nurse
standing her up against a glass brick wall. ‘Old Glass Cunt,’ he sneered, and saw a
cunt full of colored glass splinters under the Northern Lights.
He washed his penis and buttoned up his pants.
Something was watching his every thought and movement with cold, sneering
hate, the shi ing of his testes, the contrac ons of his rectum. He was in a room
ﬁlled with green light. There was a stained wood double bed, a black wardrobe
with full length mirror. Carl could not see his face. Someone was si ng in a black
hotel chair. He was wearing a s ﬀ bosomed white shirt and a dirty paper e. The
face swollen, skull-less, eyes like burning pus.
‘Something wrong?’ said the nurse indiﬀerently. She was holding a glass of
water out to him. She watched him drink with aloof contempt. She turned and
picked up the jar with obvious distaste.
The nurse turned to him: ‘Are you wai ng for something special?’ shesnapped. Carl had never been spoken to like that in his adult life. ‘Why no.…’ ‘You
can go then,’ she turned back to the jar. With a li le exclama on of disgust she
wiped a gob of semen off her hand. Carl crossed the room and stood at the door.
‘Do I have another appointment?’
She looked at him in disapproving surprise: ‘You’ll be no ﬁed of course.’ She
stood in the doorway of the cubicle and watched him walk through the outer
oﬃce and open the door. He turned and a empted a jaunty wave. The nurse did
not move or change her expression. As he walked down the stairs the broken,
false grin burned his face with shame. A homosexual tourist looked at him and
raised a knowing eyebrow. ‘Something wrong?’
Carl ran into a park and found an empty bench beside a bronze faun with
cymbals.
‘Let your hair down, chicken. You’ll feel be er.’ The tourist was leaning over
him, his camera swinging in Carl’s face like a great dangling tit.
‘Fuck off you!’
Carl saw something ignoble and hideous reﬂected back in the queen’s spayed
animal brown eyes.
‘Oh! I wouldn’t be calling any names if I were you, chicken. You’re hooked
too. I saw you coming out of The Institute.’
‘What do you mean by that?’ Carl demanded.
‘Oh nothing. Nothing at all.’
‘Well, Carl,’ the doctor began smiling and keeping his eyes on a level with Carl’s
mouth. ‘I have some good news for you.’ He picked up a slip of blue paper oﬀ the
desk and went through an elaboratore pantomime of focusing his eyes on it.
‘Your uh test … the Robinson-Kleiberg floculation test …’
‘I thought it was a Blomberg-Stanlouski test.’
The doctor ered. ‘Oh dear no.… You are ge ng ahead of me young man.
You might have misunderstood. The Blomberg-Stanlouski, weeell that’s a
diﬀerent sort of test altogether. I do hope … not necessary.…’ He ered again:
‘But as I was saying before I was so charmingly interrupted … by my hurumph
learned young colleague. Your KS seems to be …’ He held the slip at arm’s length.
‘.…completely uh nega ve. So perhaps we won’t be troubling you any further.
And so …’ He folded the slip carefully into a ﬁle. He leafed through the ﬁle. Finally
he stopped and frowned and pursed his lips. He closed the ﬁle and put his hand
flat on it and leaned forward.
‘Carl, when you were doing your military service … There must have been … in
fact there were long periods when you found yourself deprived of the uh
consola ons and uh facilities of the fair sex. During these no doubt trying and
diﬃcult periods you had perhaps a pin up girl?? Or more likely a pin up harem??
Heh heh heh …’
Carl looked at the doctor with overt distaste. ‘Yes, of course,’ he said. ‘We all
did.’
‘And now, Carl, I would like to show you some pin up girls.’ He pulled anenvelope out of a drawer. ‘And ask you to please pick out the one you would
most like to uh make heh heh heh.…’ He suddenly leaned forward fanning the
photographs in front of Carl’s face. ‘Pick a girl, any girl, any girl!’
Carl reached out with numb ﬁngers and touched one of the photographs. The
doctor put the photo back into the pack and shuﬄed and cut and he placed the
pack on Carl’s ﬁle and slapped it smartly. He spread the photos face up in front of
Carl. ‘Is she there?’
Carl shook his head.
‘Of course not. She is in here where she belongs. A woman’s place what???’
He opened the file and held out the girl’s photo attached to a Rorschach plate.
‘Is that her?’
Carl nodded silently.
‘You have good taste, my boy. I may tell you in strictest conﬁdence that some
of these girls …’ with gambler ﬁngers he shi s the photos in Three Card Monte
Passes – ‘are really boys. In uh drag I believe is the word???’ His eyebrows shot up
and down with incredible speed. Carl could not be sure he had seen anything
unusual. The doctor’s face opposite him was absolutely immobile and
expressionless. Once again Carl experienced the ﬂoa ng sensa on in his stomach
and genitals of a sudden elevator stop.
‘Yes, Carl, you seem to be running our li le obstacle course with ﬂying colors.
… I guess you think this is all pretty silly don’t you now …???’
‘Well, to tell the truth … Yes …’
‘You are frank, Carl.… This is good.… And now … Carl …’ He dragged the name
out caressingly like a sweet con dick about to oﬀer you an Old Gold – (just like a
cop to smoke Old Golds somehow) and go into his act.…
The con dick does a little dance step.
‘Why don’t you make The Man a proposi on?’ he jerks a head towards his
glowering super-ego who is always referred to in the third person as ‘The Man’ or
‘The Lieutenant.’
‘That’s the way the Lieutenant is, you play fair with him and he’ll play fair with
you.… We’d like to go light on you.… If you could help us in some way.’ His words
open out into a desolate waste of cafeterias and street corners and lunch rooms.
Junkies look the other way munching pound cake.
‘The Fag is wrong.’
The Fag slumps in a hotel chair knocked out on goof balls with his tongue
lolling out.
He gets up in a goof ball trance, hangs himself without altering his expression
or pulling his tongue in.
The dick is diddling on a pad.
‘Know Marty Steel?’ Diddle.
‘Yes.’
‘Can you score off him?’ Diddle? Diddle?
‘He’s skeptical.’‘But you can score.’ Diddle diddle. ‘You scored oﬀ him last week didn’t you?’
Diddle???
‘Yes.’
‘Well you can score oﬀ him this week.’ Diddle … Diddle … Diddle … ‘You can
score off him today.’ No diddle.
‘No! No! Not that!!’
‘Now look are you going to cooperate’ – three vicious diddles – ‘or does the …
does the Man cornhole you???’ He raises a fay eyebrow.
‘And so Carl you will please oblige to tell me how many mes and under what
circumstances you have uh indulged in homosexual acts???’ His voice dri s away.
‘If you have never done so I shall be inclined to think of you as a somewhat
atypical young man.’ The doctor raises a coy admonishing ﬁnger. ‘In any case …’
He tapped the ﬁle and ﬂashed a hideous leer. Carl no ced that the ﬁle was six
inches thick. In fact it seemed to have thickened enormously since he entered the
room.
‘Well, when I was doing my military service … These queers used to
proposition me and sometimes … when I was blank …’
‘Yes, of course, Carl,’ the doctor brayed hear ly. ‘In your posi on I would
have done the same I don’t mind telling you heh heh heh.… Well, I guess we can
uh dismiss as irrelevant these uh understandable means of replenishing the uh
exchequer. And now, Carl, there were perhaps’ – one ﬁnger tapped the ﬁle which
gave out a faint eﬄuvia of moldy jock straps and chlorine – ‘occasions. When no
uh economic factors were involved.’
A green ﬂare exploded in Carl’s brain. He saw Hans’ lean brown body –
twis ng towards him, quick breath on his shoulder. The ﬂare went out. Some
huge insect was squirming in his hand.
His whole being jerked away in an electric spasm of revulsion.
Carl got to his feet shaking with rage.
‘What are you writing there?’ he demanded.
‘Do you often doze off like that? In the middle of a conversation …?’
‘I wasn’t asleep that is.’
‘You weren’t?’
‘It’s just that the whole thing is unreal.… I’m going now. I don’t care. You can’t
force me to stay.’
He was walking across the room towards the door. He had been walking a
long time. A creeping numbness dragged his legs. The door seemed to recede.
‘Where can you go, Carl?’ The doctor’s voice reached him from a great
distance.
‘Out … Away … Through the door …’
‘The Green Door, Carl?’
The doctor’s voice was barely audible. The whole room was exploding out
into space.Have You Seen Pantopon Rose
Stay away from the Queen’s plaza, son.… Evil spot haunted by dicks scream for
dope ﬁend lover.… Too many levels.… Heat ﬂares out from the broom closet high
on ammonia … like burning lions … fall on poor old lush worker scare her veins
right down to the bone.… Her skin-pop a week or so do that ﬁve-twenty-nine kick
handed out free and gratis by NYC to jostling junkies.…
So Fag, Beagle, Irish, Sailor beware.… Look down, look down along that line
before you travail there.…
The subway sweeps by with a black blast of iron.…
– Queen’s Plaza is a bad spot for lush workers.… Too many levels and lurking
places for subway heat, and impossible to cover when you put the hand out.…
Five months and twenty-nine days: sentence given for ‘jostling,’ that is,
touching a ﬂop with obvious intent.… Innocent people may be convicted of
murder but not of jostling.
Fag, Beagle, Irish, Sailor, old me, junkies and lushingworkers of my
acquaintance.… The old 103rd street klatch.… Sailor and Irish hanged themselves
in the Tombs.… The Beagle is dead of an overdose and the Fag went wrong.…
‘Have you seen Pantopon Rose?’ said the old junky.…‘Time to cosq,’ put on a
black overcoat and made the square.… Down skid road to Market Street Museum
shows all kinds masturbation and self-abuse. Young boys need it special.…
The gangster in concrete rolls down the river channel.… They cowboyed him
in the steam room.… Is this Cherry Ass Gio the Towel Boy or Mother Gilling, Old
Auntie of Westminster Place?? Only dead fingers talk in Braille.…
The Mississippi rolls great limestone boulders down the silent alley.…
‘Clutter the glind!’ screamed the Captain of Moving Land.…
Distant rumble of stomachs.… Poisoned pigeons rain from the Northern
Lights.… The reservoirs are empty: … Brass statues crash through the hungry
squares and alleys of the gaping city.…
Probing for a vein in the junk-sick morning.…
Strictly from cough syrup …
A thousand junkies storm the crystal spine clinics, cook down the Grey Ladies.
…
In the limestone cave met a man with Medusa’s head in a hat box and said,
‘Be Careful,’ to the Customs Inspector.… Frozen forever hand an inch from the
false bottom.…
Window dressers scream through the sta on, beat the cashiers with the fairy
hype.…(The Hype is a short change con.… Also known as The Bill.…)
‘Multiple fracture,’ said the big physician.… ‘I’m very technical.…’
Conspicuous consumption is rampant in the porticos slippery with Koch spit.…
The cen pede nuzzles the iron door rusted to thin black paper by the urine of
a million fairies.…
This is no rich mother load, but vi ate dust, second run co ons trace thebones of a fix.…
Coke Bugs
The Sailor’s grey felt hat and black overcoat hung twisted in atrophied yen-wait.
Morning sun outlined. The Sailor in the orange-yellow ﬂame of junk. He had a
paper napkin under his coﬀee cup – mark of those who do a lot of si ng over
coﬀee in the plazas, restaurants, terminals and wai ng rooms of the world. A
junky, even at The Sailor’s level, runs on junk Time and when he makes his
importunate irrup on into the Time of others, like all pe oners, he must wait.
(How many coffees in an hour?)
A boy came in and sat at the counter in broken lines of long, sick junk-wait.
The Sailor shivered. His face fuzzed out of focus in a shuddering brown mist. His
hands moved on the table, reading the boy’s Braille. His eyes traced li le dips and
circles, following whorls of brown hair on the boy’s neck in a slow, searching
movement.
The boy s rred and scratched the back of his neck: ‘Something bit me, Joe.
What kinda creep joint you run here?’
‘Coke bugs, kid,’ Joe said, holding eggs up to the light. ‘I was travelling with
Irene Kelly and her was a spor ng woman. In Bu e, state of Montany, her got the
coke horrors and run through the hotel screaming Chinese coppers chase her with
meat cleavers. I knew this cop in Chi sniﬀ coke used to come in form of crystals,
blue crystals. So he go nuts and start screaming the Federals is a er him and run
down this alley and s ck his head in the garbage can. And I said, “What you think
you are doing?” and her say, “Get away or I shoot you! I got myself hid good!”
When the roll is called up yonder we’ll be there, right?’
Joe looked at The Sailor and spread his hands in the junky shrug.
The Sailor spoke in his feeling voice that reassembles in your head, spelling
out the words with cold fingers: ‘Your connection is broken, kid.’
The boy shied. His street-boy face, torn with black scars of junk, retained a
wild, broken innocence; shy animals peering out through grey arabesques of
terror.
‘I don’t dig you, Jack.’
The Sailor leapt into sharp, junky focus. He turned back his coat lapel, showing
a brass hypo needle covered with mold and verdigris. ‘Re red for the good of the
service.… Sit down and have a blueberry crumb pie on the expense account. Your
monkey loves it.… Make his coat glossy.’
The boy felt a touch on his arm across eight feet of morning lunch room. He
was suddenly siphoned into the booth, landing with an inaudible shlup. He looked
into The Sailor’s eyes, a green universe stirred by cold black currents.
‘You are agent, mister?’
‘I prefer the word … vector.’ His sounding laughter vibrated through the boy’s
substance.‘You holding, man? I got the bread.…’
‘I don’t want your money, Honey: I want your Time.’
‘I don’t dig.’
‘You want fix? You want straight? You wanta, nooood?’
The Sailor cradled something pink and vibrated out of focus.
‘Yeah.’
‘We’ll take the Independent. Got their own special heat, don’t carry guns only
saps. I recall, me and the Fag fell once in Queen’s Plaza. Stay away from Queen’s
Plaza, son … evil spot … fuzz haunted. Too many levels. Heat ﬂares out from the
broom closet high on ammonia like burning lions … fall on poor old lush worker,
scare her veins right down to the bone. Her skin pop a week or do that ﬁve-
twenty-nine kick handed out free and gra s by NYC to jostling junkies.… So Fag,
Beagle, Irish, Sailor beware, Look down, look down along that line before you
travel there.…’
The subway sweeps by with a black blast of iron.
The Exterminator Does a Good Job
The Sailor touched the door gently, following pa erns of painted oak in a slow
twist, leaving faint, iridescent whorls of slime. His arm went through to the
elbow. He pulled back an inside bolt and stood aside for the boy to enter.
Heavy colorless smell of death filled the empty room.
‘The trap hasn’t been aired since the Exterminator fumigated for coke bugs,’
said The Sailor apologetically.
The boy’s peeled senses darted about in frenzied explora on. Tenement ﬂat,
railroad ﬂat vibra ng with silent mo on. Along one wall of the kitchen a metal
trough – or was it metal, exactly? – ran into a sort of aquarium or tank half-ﬁlled
with translucent green ﬂuid. Moldy objects, worn out in unknown service, li ered
the ﬂoor: a jockstrap designed to protect some delicate organ of ﬂat, fan-shape;
mul -levelled trusses, supports and bandages; a large U-shaped yoke of porous
pink stone; little lead tubes cut open at one end.
Currents of movement from the two bodies s rred stagnant odor pools;
atrophied boy-smell of dusty locker rooms, swimming pool chlorine, dried semen.
Other smells curled through pink convolutions, touching unknown doors.
The Sailor reached under the wash-stand and extracted a package in wrapping
paper that shredded and fell from his ﬁngers in yellow dust. He laid out dropper,
needle and spoon on a table covered with dirty dishes. But no roach antennae
felt for the crumbs of darkness.
‘The Exterminator does a good job,’ said The Sailor. ‘Almost too good,
sometimes.’
He dipped into a square n of yellow pyretheum powder and pulled out a ﬂat
package covered in red and gold Chinese paper.
‘Like a ﬁrecracker package,’ the boy thought. At fourteen lost two ﬁngers.…Fourth of July ﬁreworks accident … later, in the hospital, ﬁrst silent proprietary
touch of junk.
‘They go oﬀ here, kid.’ The Sailor put a hand to the back of his head. He
camped obscenely as he opened the package, a complex arrangement of slots
and overlays.
‘Pure, one hundred per cent H. Scarcely a man is now alive … and it’s all
yours.’
‘So what you want off me?’
‘Time.’
‘I don’t dig.’
‘I have something you want,’ his hand touched the package. He dri ed away
into the front room, his voice remote and blurred. ‘You have something I want …
ﬁve minutes here … an hour someplace else … two … four … eight … Maybe I’m
getting ahead of myself.… Every day die a little.… It takes up The Time.…’
He moved back into the kitchen, his voice loud and clear: ‘Five years a piece.
Nobody gives a be er deal on the street.’ He put a ﬁnger on the dividing line
below the boy’s nose. ‘Right down the middle.’
‘Mister, I don’t know what you’re talking about.’
‘You will, baby … in time.’
‘OK. So what do I do?’
‘You accept?’
‘Yeah, like …’ He glanced at the package. ‘Whatever … I accept.’
The boy felt a silent clunk fall through his ﬂesh. The Sailor put a hand to the
boy’s eyes and pulled out a pink scrotal egg with one closed, pulsing eye. Black fur
boiled inside translucent flesh of the egg.
The Sailor caressed the egg with nakedly inhuman hands – black-pink, thick,
ﬁbrous, long white tendrils sprou ng from abbreviated ﬁnger ps. Death fear and
Death weakness hit the boy, shu ng oﬀ his breath, stopping his blood. He leaned
against a wall that seemed to give slightly. He clicked back into junk focus.
The Sailor was cooking a shot. ‘When the roll is called up yonder we’ll be
there, right?’ he said, feeling along the boy’s vein, erasing goose-pimples with a
gentle old woman ﬁnger. He slid the needle in. A red orchid bloomed at the
bo om of the dropper. The Sailor pressed the bulb, watching the solu on rush
into the boy-vein, sucked by silent thirst of blood.
‘Jesus!’ said the boy. ‘I never hit like that before!’
He lit a cigare e and looked around the kitchen, twitching in sugar need.
‘Aren’t you taking off?’ he asked.
With that milk sugar shit? Junk is a one-way street. No U-turn. You can’t go
back no more.’
They call me The Exterminator. At one brief point of intersec on I did exercise
that func on and witnessed the belly dance of roaches suﬀoca ng in yellow
pyretheum powder (‘Hard to get now, lady … war on. Let you have a li le.… Two
dollars.’) Sluiced fat bedbugs from rose wall paper in shabby theatrical hotels onNorth Clark and poisoned the purposeful Rat, occasional eater of human babies.
Wouldn’t you?
My present assignment: Find the live ones and exterminate. Not the bodies but
the ‘molds,’ you understand - but I forget that you cannot understand. We have
all but a very few. But even one could upset our food tray. The danger, as always,
comes from defec ng agents: A.J., the Vigilante, the Black Armadillo (carrier of
Chagas vectors, hasn’t taken a bath since the Argen ne epidemic of ‘35,
remember?), and Lee and The Sailor and Benway. And I know some agent is out
there in the darkness looking for me. Because all Agents defect and all Resisters
sell out.…
The Algebra of Need
‘Fats’ Terminal came from The City Pressure Tanks where open life jets spurt a
million forms, immediately eaten, the eaters cancelled by black time fuzz.…
Few reach the Plaza, a point where The Tanks empty a dal river, carrying
forms of survival armed with defenses of poison slime, black, ﬂesh ro ng,
fungus, and green odors that sear the lungs and grab the stomach in twisted
knots.…
Because ‘Fats” nerves were raw and peeled to feel the death spasms of a
million cold kicks.…‘Fats’ learned The Algebra of Need and survived.…
One Friday ‘Fats’ siphoned himself into The Plaza, a translucent-grey, foetal
monkey, suckers on his li le so , purple-grey hands, and a lamprey disk mouth of
cold, grey gristle lined with hollow, black, erec le teeth, feeling for the scar
patterns of junk.…
And a rich man passed and stared at the monster and ‘Fats’ rolled pissing and
shi ng in terror and ate his shit and the man was moved by this tribute to his
potent gaze and clicked a coin out of his Friday cane (Friday is Moslem Sunday
when the rich are supposed to distribute alms).
So ‘Fats’ learned to serve The Black Meat and grew a fat aquarium of body.…
And his blank, periscope eyes swept the world’s surface.… In his wake of
addicts, translucent-grey monkeys ﬂashed like ﬁsh spears to the junk Mark, and
hung there sucking and it all drained back into ‘Fats’ so his substance grew and
grew ﬁlling plazas, restaurants and wai ng rooms of the world with grey junk
ooze.
Bulle ns from Party Headquarters are spelled out in obscene charades by
hebephrenics and Latahs and apes, Sollubis fart code, Negroes open and shut
mouth to ﬂash messages on gold teeth, Arab rioters send smoke signals by
throwing great bu ery eunuchs – they make the best smoke, hangs black and
shit-solid in the air – onto gasoline ﬁres in a rubbish heap, mosaic of melodies,
sad Pan pipes of humpbacked beggar, cold wind sweeps down from post card
Chimborazi, ﬂutes of Ramadan, piano music down a windy street, mu latedpolice calls, advertising leaflet synchronize with street fight spell SOS.
Two agents have iden ﬁed themselves each to each by choice of sex
prac ces foiling alien microphones, fuck atomic secrets back and forth in code so
complex only two physicists in the world pretend to understand it and each
categorically denies the other. Later the receiving agent will be hanged, convicted
of the guilty possession of a nervous system, and play back the message in
orgasmal spasms transmitted from electrodes attached to the penis.
Breathing rhythm of old cardiac, bumps of a belly dancer, put put put of a
motorboat across oily water. The waiter lets fall a drop of mar ni of the Man in
the Grey Flannel Suit, who lams for the 6.12 knowing that he has been spotted.
Junkies climb out the lavatory window of the chop suey joint as the El rumbles
past. The Gimp, cowboyed in the Waldorf, gives birth to a li er of rats. (Cowboy:
New York hood talk means kill the mother fucker wherever you ﬁnd him. A rat is
a rat is a rat is a rat. Is an informer.) Foolish virgins heed the English colonel who
rides by brandishing a screaming peccary on his lance. The elegant fag patronizes
his neighbourhood bar to receive a bulle n from Dead Mother lives on in
synapses and will evoke the exci ng Nanny Beater. Boys jacking oﬀ in the school
toilet know each other as agents from Galaxy X, adjourn to a second-run night
spot where they sit shabby and portentous drinking wine vinegar and ea ng
lemons to confound the tenor sax, a hip Arab in blue glasses suspect to be Enemy
Sender. The world network of junkies, tuned on a cord of rancid jissom … tying up
in furnished rooms … shivering in the sick morning … (Old Pete men suck the Black
Smoke in a Chink laundry back room. Melancholy Baby dies from an overdose of
Time or cold turkey withdrawal of breath – in Arabia – Paris – Mexico City – New
York – New Orleans –) The living and the dead … in sickness or on the nod …
hooked or kicked or hooked again … come in on the junk beam and The
Connec on is ea ng Chop Suey on Dolores Street … dunking pound cake in
Bickfords … chased up Exchange Place by a baying pack of people. Malarials of
the world bundle in shivering protoplasm. Fear seals the turd message with a
cuneiform account. Giggling rioters copulate to the screams of a burning Nigra.
Lonely librarians unite in soul kiss of halitosis. That grippy feeling brother? Sore
throat persistent and disquie ng as the hot a ernoon wind? Welcome to the
Interna onal Syphilis Lodge – ‘Methodith Epithcopal God damn ith’ (phrase used
to test for speech impairment typical of paresis) or the ﬁrst silent touch of
chancre makes you a member in good standing. The vibra ng soundless hum of
deep forest and orgone accumulators, the sudden silence of ci es when the junky
cops and even the Commuter buzzes clogged lines of cholesterol for contact.
Signal ﬂares of orgasm burst over the world. A tea head leaps up screaming ‘I got
the fear!’ and runs into Mexican night bringing down backbrains of the world. The
Executioner shits in terror at sight of the condemned man. The Torturer screams
in the ear of his implacable vic m. Knife ﬁghters embrace in adrenalin. Cancer is
at the door with a Singing Telegram.…Hauser and O’Brien
When they walked in on me that morning at 8 o’clock, I knew that it was my last
chance, my only chance. But they didn’t know. How could they? Just a rou ne
pick-up. But not quite routine.
Hauser had been ea ng breakfast when the Lieutenant called: ‘I want you and
your partner to pick up a man named Lee, William Lee, on your way downtown.
He’s in the Hotel Lamprey. 103rd just off Broadway.’
‘Yeah I know where it is. I remember him too.’
‘Good. Room 606. Just pick him up. Don’t take me to shake the place down.
Except bring in all books, le ers, manuscripts. Anything printed, typed or wri en.
Ketch?’
‘Ketch. But what’s the angle.… Books …’
‘Just do it.’ The Lieutenant hung up.
Hauser and O’Brien. They had been on the City Narco c Squad for 20 years.
Old mers like me. I been on the junk for 16 years. They weren’t bad as laws go.
At least O’Brien wasn’t. O’Brien was the conman, and Hauser the tough guy. A
vaudeville team. Hauser had a way of hi ng you before he said anything just to
break the ice. Then O’Brien gives you an Old Gold – just like a cop to smoke Old
Golds somehow … and starts pu ng down a cop con that was really bo led in
bond. Not a bad guy, and I didn’t want to do it. But it was my only chance.
I was just tying up for my morning shot when they walked in with a pass key.
It was a special kind you can use even when the door is locked from the inside
with a key in the lock. On the table in front of me was a packet of junk, spike,
syringe – I got the habit of using a regular syringe in Mexico and never went back
to using a dropper – alcohol, cotton and a glass of water.
‘Well, well,’ says O’Brien.… Long time no see eh?’
‘Put on your coat, Lee,’ says Hauser. He had his gun out. He always has it out
when he makes a pinch for the psychological eﬀect and to forestall a rush for
toilet sink or window.
‘Can I take a bang first, boys?’ I asked.… There’s plenty here for evidence.…’
I was wondering how I could get to my suitcase if they said no. The case
wasn’t locked, but Hauser had the gun in his hand.
‘He wants a shot,’ said Hauser.
‘Now you know we can’t do that, Bill,’ said O’Brien in his sweet con voice,
dragging out the name with an oily, insinuating familiarity, brutal and obscene.
He meant, of course, ‘What can you do for us, Bill?’ He looked at me and
smiled. The smile stayed there too long, hideous and naked, the smile of an old
painted pervert, gathering all the negative evil of O’Brien’s ambiguous function.
‘I might could set up Marty Steel for you,’ I said.
I knew they wanted Marty bad. He’d been pushing for ﬁve years, and they
couldn’t hang one on him. Marty was an old mer, and very careful about who he
served. He had to know a man and know him well before he would pick up hismoney. No one can say they ever did me because of me. My rep is perfect, but
s ll Marty wouldn’t serve me because he didn’t know me long enough. That’s
how skeptical Marty was.
‘Marty!’ said O’Brien. ‘Can you score from him?’
‘Sure I can.’
They were suspicious. A man can’t be a cop all his life without developing a
special set of intuitions.
‘O.K.,’ said Hauser finally. ‘But you’d better deliver, Lee.’
‘I’ll deliver all right. Believe me I appreciate this.’
I ed up for a shot, my hands trembling with eagerness, an archetype dope
fiend.
‘Just an old junky, boys, a harmless old shaking wreck of a junky.’ That’s the
way I put it down. As I had hoped, Hauser looked away when I started probing for
a vein. It’s a wildly unpretty spectacle.
O’Brien was si ng on the arm of a chair smoking an Old Gold, looking out the
window with that dreamy what I’ll do when I get my pension look.
I hit a vein right away. A column of blood shot up into the syringe for an
instant sharp and solid as a red cord. I pressed the plunger down with my thumb,
feeling the junk pound through my veins to feed a million junk-hungry cells, to
bring strength and alertness to every nerve and muscle. They were not watching
me. I filled the syringe with alcohol.
Hauser was juggling his snub-nosed detec ve special, a Colt, and looking
around the room. He could smell danger like an animal. With his le hand he
pushed the closet door open and glanced inside. My stomach contracted. I
thought, ‘If he looks in the suitcase now I’m done.’
Hauser turned to me abruptly. ‘You through yet?’ he snarled. ‘You’d be er not
try to shit us on Marty.’ The words came out so ugly he surprised and shocked
himself.
I picked up the syringe full of alcohol, twis ng the needle to make sure it was
tight.
‘Just two seconds,’ I said.
I squirted a thin jet of alcohol, whipping it across his eyes with a sideways
shake of the syringe. He let out a bellow of pain. I could see him pawing at his
eyes with the le hand like he was tearing oﬀ an invisible bandage as I dropped
to the ﬂoor on one knee, reaching for my suitcase. I pushed the suitcase open,
and my le hand closed over the gun bu – I am righthanded but I shoot with my
le hand. I felt the concussion of Hauser’s shot before I heard it. His slug
slammed into the wall behind me. Shoo ng from the ﬂoor, I snapped two quick
shots into Hauser’s belly where his vest had pulled up showing an inch of white
shirt. He grunted in a way I could feel and doubled forward. S ﬀ with panic,
O’Brien’s hand was tearing at the gun in his shoulder holster. I clamped my other
hand around my gun wrist to steady it for the long pull – this gun has the hammer
ﬁled oﬀ round so you can only use it double ac on – and shot him in the middleof his red forehead about two inches below the silver hairline. His hair had been
grey the last me I saw him. That was about 15 years ago. My ﬁrst arrest. His
eyes went out. He fell oﬀ the chair onto his face. My hands were already
reaching for what I needed, sweeping my notebooks into a briefcase with my
works, junk, and a box of shells. I stuck the gun into my belt, and stepped out into
the corridor putting on my coat.
I could hear the desk clerk and the bell boy pounding up the stairs. I took the
self-service elevator down, walked through the empty lobby into the street.
It was a beau ful Indian Summer day. I knew I didn’t have much chance, but
any chance is be er than none, be er than being a subject for experiments with
ST (6) or whatever the initials are.
I had to stock up on junk fast. Along with airports, R.R. sta ons and bus
terminals, they would cover all junk areas and connec ons. I took a taxi to
Washington Square, got out and walked along 4th Street ll I spo ed Nick on a
corner. You can always ﬁnd the pusher. Your need conjures him up like a ghost.
‘Listen, Nick,’ I said, ‘I’m leaving town. I want to pick up a piece of H. Can you
make it right now?’
We were walking along 4th Street. Nick’s voice seemed to dri into my
consciousness from no par cular place. An eerie, disembodied voice. ‘Yes, I think
I can make it. I’ll have to make a run uptown.’
‘We can take a cab.’
‘O.K., but I can’t take you in to the guy, you understand.’
‘I understand. Let’s go.’
We were in the cab heading North. Nick was talking in his flat, dead voice.
‘Some funny stuﬀ we’re ge ng lately. It’s not weak exactly.… I don’t know.…
It’s diﬀerent. Maybe they’re pu ng some synthe c shit in it.… Dollies or
something.…’
‘What!!!? Already?’
‘Huh? … But this I’m taking you to now is O.K. In fact it’s about the best deal
around that I know of.… Stop here.’
‘Please make it fast,’ I said.
‘It should be a ma er of ten minutes unless he’s out of stuﬀ and has to make
a run.… Be er sit down over there and have a cup of coﬀee.… This is a hot
neighborhood.’
I sat down at a counter and ordered coﬀee, and pointed to a piece of Danish
pastry under a plas c cover. I washed down the stale rubbery cake with coﬀee,
praying that just this once, please God, let him make it now, and not come back
to say the man is all out and has to make a run to East Orange or Greenpoint.
Well here he was back, standing behind me. I looked at him, afraid to ask.
Funny, I thought, here I sit with perhaps one chance in a hundred to live out the
next 24 hours – I had made up my mind not to surrender and spend the next three
or four months in death’s wai ng room. And here I was worrying about a junk
score. But I only had about ﬁve shots le , and without junk I would beimmobilized.… Nick nodded his head.
‘Don’t give it to me here,’ I said. ‘Let’s take a cab.’
We took a cab and started downtown. I held out my hand and copped the
package, then I slipped a ﬁ y-dollar bill into Nick’s palm. He glanced at it and
showed his gums in a toothless smile: ‘Thanks a lot.… This will put me in the clear.
…’
I sat back le ng my mind work without pushing it. Push your mind too hard,
and it will fuck up like an overloaded switch-board, or turn on you with sabotage.
… And I had no margin for error. Americans have a special horror of giving up
control, of le ng things happen in their own way without interference. They
would like to jump down into their stomachs and digest the food and shovel the
shit out.
Your mind will answer most ques ons if you learn to relax and wait for the
answer. Like one of those thinking machines, you feed in your ques on, sit back,
and wait.…
I was looking for a name. My mind was sor ng through names, discarding at
once F.L. – Fuzz Lover, B.W. – Born Wrong, N.C.B.C. – Nice Cat But Chicken;
putting aside to reconsider, narrowing, sifting, feeling for the name, the answer.
‘Some mes, you know he’ll keep me wai ng three hours. Some mes I make it
right away like this.’ Nick had a depreca ng li le laugh that he used for
punctua on. Sort of an apology for talking at all in the telepathizing world of the
addict where only the quan ty factor – How much $? How much junk? – requires
verbal expression. He knew and I knew all about wai ng. At all levels the drug
trade operates without schedule. Nobody delivers on me except by accident.
The addict runs on junk me. His body is his clock, and junk runs through it like an
hour-glass. Time has meaning for him only with reference to his need. Then he
makes his abrupt intrusion into the me of others, and, like all Outsiders, all
Petitioners, he must wait, unless he happens to mesh with non-junk time.
‘What can I say to him? He knows I’ll wait,’ Nick laughed.
I spent the night in the Ever Hard Baths – (homosexuality is the best all-
around cover story an agent can use) – where a snarling Italian a endant creates
such an unnerving atmosphere sweeping the dormitory with infrared see-in-the-
dark fieldglasses.
(‘All right in the North East corner! I see you!’ switching on ﬂoodlights, s cking
his head through trapdoors in the ﬂoor and wall of the private rooms, that many
a queen has been carried out in a straitjacket.…)
I lay there in my open top cubicle room looking at the ceiling … listened to the
grunts and squeals and snarls in the nightmare halflight of random, broken lust.…
‘Fuck off you!’
‘Put on two pairs of glasses and maybe you can see something!’
Walked out in the precise morning and bought a paper.… Nothing.… I called
from a drugstore phone booth … and asked for Narcotics:
‘Lieutenant Gonzales … who’s calling?’‘I want to speak to O’Brien.’ A moment of sta c, dangling wires, broken
connections …
‘Nobody of that name in this department.… Who are you?’
‘Well let me speak to Hauser.’
‘Look, Mister, no O’Brien no Hauser in this bureau. Now what do you want?’
‘Look, this is important.… I’ve got info on a big shipment of H coming in.… I
want to talk to Hauser or O’Brien.… I don’t do business with anybody else.…’
‘Hold on.… I’ll connect you with Alcibiades.’
I began to wonder if there was an Anglo-Saxon name le in the Department.
…
‘I want to speak to Hauser or O’Brien.’
How many mes I have to tell you no Hauser no O’Brien in this department.…
Now who is this calling?’
I hung up and took a taxi out of the area.… In the cab I realized what had
happened.… I had been occluded from space- me like an eel’s ass occludes when
he stops ea ng on the way to Sargasso.… Locked out.… Never again would I have
a Key, a Point of Intersec on.… The Heat was oﬀ me from here on out …
relegated with Hauser and O’Brien to a landlocked junk past where heroin is
always twenty-eight dollars an ounce and you can score for yen pox in the Chink
Laundry of Sioux Falls.… Far side of the world’s mirror, moving into the past with
Hauser and O’Brien … clawing at a not-yet of Telepathic Bureaucracies, Time
Monopolies, Control Drugs, Heavy Fluid Addicts:
‘I thought of that three hundred years ago.’
‘Your plan was unworkable then and useless now.… Like Da Vinci’s ﬂying
machine plans.…’Atrophied Preface
WOULDN’T YOU?
Why all this waste paper ge ng The People from one place to another? Perhaps
to spare The Reader stress of sudden space shi s and keep him Gentle? And so a
cket is bought, a taxi called, a plane boarded. We are allowed a glimpse into the
warm peach-lined cave as She (the airline hostess, of course) leans over us to
murmur of chewing gum, dramamine, even nembutal.
‘Talk paregoric, Sweet Thing, and I will hear.’
I am not American Express.… If one of my people is seen in New York walking
around in ci zen clothes and next sentence Timbuktu pu ng down lad talk on a
gazelle-eyed youth, we may assume that he (the party non-resident of Timbuktu)
transported himself there by the usual methods of communication.…
Lee The Agent (a double-four-eight-sixteen) is taking the junk cure … space
me trip portentously familiar as junk meet corners to the addict … cures past
and future shu le pictures through his spectral substance vibra ng in silent winds
of accelerated Time.… Pick a shot.… Any Shot.…
Formal knuckle bi ng, ﬂoor rolling shots in a precinct cell.…‘Feel like a shot of
Heroin, Bill? Haw Haw Haw.’
Tentative half impressions that dissolve in light … pockets of ro en ectoplasm
swept out by an old junky coughing and spitting in the sick morning.…
Old violet brown photos that curl and crack like mud in the sun: Panama City
… Bill Gains putting down the paregoric con on a Chinese druggist.
‘I’ve got these racing dogs … pedigree greyhounds.… All sick with the
dysentery … tropical climate … the shits … you sabe shit? … My Whippets Are
Dying.…’ He screamed.… His eyes lit up with blue ﬁre.… The ﬂame went out …
smell of burning metal.… ‘Administer with an eye dropper.… Wouldn’t you? …
Menstral cramps … my wife … Kotex … Aged mother … Piles … raw … bleeding …’
He nodded out against the counter.… The druggist took a toothpick out of his
mouth and looked at the end of it and shook his head.…
Gains and Lee burned down the Republic of Panama from David of Darien on
paregoric.… They ﬂew apart with a shlupping sound.… Junkies tend to run
together into one body.… Gains back to Mexico City.… Desperate skeleton grin of
chronic junk lack glazed over with codeine and goof balls … cigare e holes in his
bathrobe … coﬀee stains on the ﬂoor … smoky kerosene stove … rusty orange
flame …
The Embassy would give no details other than place of burial in the American
Cemetery.…
And Lee back to sex and pain and me and Yage, bi er Soul Vine of the
Amazon.…
I recall once a er an overdose of Majoun (this is Cannabis dried and ﬁnely
powdered to consistency of green powdered sugar and mixed with someconfec on or other usually tas ng like gri y plum pudding, but the choice of
confec on is arbitrary …). I am returning from The Lulu or Johnny or Li le Boy’s
Room (s nk of atrophied infancy and toilet training) look across the living room
of that villa outside Tanger and suddenly don’t know where I am. Perhaps I have
opened the wrong door and at any moment The Man In Possession, The Owner
Who Got There First will rush in and scream:
‘What Are You Doing Here? Who Are You?’
And I don’t know what I am doing there nor who I am. I decide to play it cool
and maybe I will get the orienta on before the Owner shows.… So instead of
yelling ‘Where Am I?’ cool it and look around and you will ﬁnd out approximately.
… You were not there for The Beginning. You will not be there for The End … Your
knowledge of what is going on can be superﬁcial and rela ve.… What do I know
of this yellow junky face subsis ng on raw opium? I tried to tell him: ‘Some
morning you will wake up with your liver in your lap’ and how to process raw
opium so it is not plain poison. But his eyes glaze over and he don’t want to
know. Junkies are like the most of them they don’t want to know … and you can’t
tell them anything.… A smoker doesn’t want to know anything but smoke.… And a
heroin junky same way.… Strictly the spike and any other route is Farina.…
So I guess he is s ll si ng there in his 1920 Spanish villa outside Tanger ea ng
that raw opium full of shit and stones and straw … the whole lot for fear he might
lose something.…
There is only one thing a writer can write about: what is in front of his senses
at the moment of wri ng.… I am a recording instrument.… I do not presume to
impose ‘story’ ‘plot’ ‘con nuity.’ … Insofaras I succeed in Direct recording of
certain areas of psychic process I may have limited func on.… I am not an
entertainer.…
‘Possession’ they call it.… Some mes an en ty jumps in the body – outlines
waver in yellow orange jelly – and hands move to disembowel the passing whore
or strangle the neighbor child in hope of allevia ng a chronic housing shortage. As
if I was usually there but subject to goof now and again…. Wrong! I am never
here.… Never that is fully in possession, but somehow in a posi on to forestall ill-
advised moves.… Patrolling is, in fact, my principal occupa on.… No ma er how
ght Security, I am always somewhere Outside giving orders and Inside this strait
jacket of jelly that gives and stretches but always reforms ahead of every
movement, thought, impulse, stamped with the seal of alien inspection.…
Writers talk about the sweet-sick smell of death whereas any junky can tell
you that death has no smell … at the same me a smell that shuts oﬀ breath and
stops blood … colorless no-smell death … no one can breathe and smell it through
pink convolu ons and black blood ﬁlters of ﬂesh … the death smell is
unmistakeably a smell and complete absence of smell … smell absence hits the
nose first because all organic life has smell … stopping of smell is felt like darkness
to the eyes, silence to the ears, stress with weightlessness to the balance and
location sense.…You always smell it and give it out for others to smell during junk withdrawal.
… A kicking junky can make a whole apartment unlivable with his death smell …
but a good airing will s nk the place up again so a body can breathe.… You also
smell it during one of those oil burner habits that suddenly starts jumping
geometric like a topping forest fire.…
Cure is always: Let go! Jump!
A friend of mine found himself naked in a Marrakesh hotel room second
ﬂoor.…(He is a er processing by a Texas mother who dressed him in girl’s clothes
as a child.… Crude but eﬀec ve against infant protoplasm.…) The other
occupants are Arabs, three Arabs … knives in hand … watching him … glint of
metal and points of light in dark eyes … pieces of murder falling slow as opal chips
through glycerine … Slower animal reac ons allow him a full second to decide:
Straight through the window and down into the crowded street like a falling star
his wake of glass gli ering in the sun … sustained a broken ankle and a chipped
shoulder … clad in a diaphanous pink curtain, with a curtain-rod staﬀ, hobbled
away to the Commissariat de Police.…
Sooner or later The Vigilante, The Rube, Lee The Agent, A.J., Clem and Jody
The Ergot Twins, Hassan O’Leary the A er Birth Tycoon, The Sailor, The
Exterminator, Andrew Keif, ‘Fats’ Terminal, Doc Benway, ‘Fingers’ Schafer are
subject to say the same thing in the same words to occupy, at that intersec on
point, the same posi on in space- me. Using a common vocal apparatus
complete with all metabolic appliances that is to be the same person – a most
inaccurate way of expressing Recognition: The junky naked in sunlight …
The writer sees himself reading to the mirror as always … He must check now
and again to reassure himself that The Crime Of Separate Ac on has not, is not
cannot occur.…
Anyone who has ever looked into a mirror knows what this crime is and what
it means in terms of lost control when the reﬂec on no longer obeys.… Too late
to dial P o l i c e.…
I personally wish to terminate my services as of now in that I cannot con nue
to sell the raw materials of death.… Yours, sir, is a hopeless case and a noisome
one.…
‘Defense is meaningless in the present state of our knowledge,’ said The
Defense looking up from an electron microscope.…
Take your business to Walgreen’s.
Steal anything in sight.
We are not responsible.
I don’t know how to return it to the white reader.
You can write or yell or croon about it … paint about it … act about it … shit it
out in mobiles.… So long as you don’t go and do it.…
Senators leap up and bray for the Death Penalty with inﬂexible authority of
virus yen.… Death for dope ﬁends, death for sex queens (I mean ﬁends), death for
the psychopath who oﬀends the cowed and graceless ﬂesh with broken animalinnocence of lithe movement.…
The black wind sock of death undulates over the land, feeling, smelling for the
crime of separate life, movers of the fear-frozen ﬂesh shivering under a vast
probability curve.…
Population blocks disappear in a checker game of genocide.… Any number can
play.…
The Liberal Press and The Press Not So Liberal and The Press Reac onary
Scream approval: ‘Above all the myth of other-level experience must be
eradicated …’ And speak darkly of certain harsh realities … cows with the aftosa …
prophylaxis.…
Power groups of the world frantically cut lines of connection.…
The Planet drifts to random insect doom.…
Thermodynamics has won at a crawl.… Orgone balked at the post.… Christ
bled.… Time ran out.…
You can cut into Naked Lunch at any intersec on point.… I have wri en many
prefaces. They atrophy and amputate spontaneous like the little toe amputates in
a West African disease conﬁned to the Negro race and the passing blonde shows
her brass ankle as a manicured toe bounces across the club terrace, retrieved and
laid at her feet by her Afghan Hound.…
Naked Lunch is a blueprint, a How-To Book.… Black insect lusts open into
vast, other planet landscapes.… Abstract concepts, bare as algebra, narrow down
to a black turd or a pair of ageing cajones.…
How-To extend levels of experience by opening the door at the end of a long
hall.… Doors that only open in Silence.…Naked Lunch demands Silence from The
Reader. Otherwise he is taking his own pulse.…
Robert Chris e knew The Answering Service.… Kill the old cunts.…keep pubic
hairs in his locket … wouldn’t You?
Robert Chris e, mass strangler of women – sounds like a daisy chain – hanged
in 1953.
Jack the Ripper, Literal Swordsman of the 1890s and never caught with his
pants down … wrote a letter to The Press.
‘Next time I’ll send along an ear just for jolly.… Wouldn’t you?’
‘Oh be careful! There they go again!’ said the old queen as his string broke
spilling his balls over the ﬂoor.… ‘Stop them will you, James, you worthless old
shit! Don’t just stand there and let the master’s balls roll into the coal-bin!’
Window dressers scream through the sta on, beat the cashiers with the Fairy
Hyp.
Dilaudid deliver poor me (Dilaudid is souped up, dehydrate morphine).
The sheriﬀ in black vest types out a death warrant: ‘Go a make it legal and
exempt narcotic.…’
Violation Public Health Law 334 … Procuring an orgasm by the use of fraud.…
Johnny on all fours and Mary sucking him and running her ﬁngers down the
thigh backs and light over the outfields of the ball park.…Over the broken chair and out through the tool-house window whitewash
whipping in a cold Spring wind on a limestone cliﬀ over the river … piece of moon
smoke hangs in China blue sky … out on a long line of jissom across the dusty
floor.…
Motel … Motel … Motel … broken neon arabesque … loneliness moans across
the continent like fog horns over still oily water of tidal rivers.…
Ball squeezed dry lemon rind pest rims the ass with a knife cut oﬀ a piece of
hash for the water pipe – bubble bubble – indicate what used to be me.…
‘The river is served, sir.’
Dead leaves ﬁll the fountain and geraniums run wild with mint, spill a vending
machine route across the lawn.…
The aging playboy dons his 1920 autograph slicker, feeds his screaming wife
down the garbage-disposal unit.… Hair, shit and blood spurt out 1963 on the wall.
… ‘Yes sir, boys, the shit really hit the fan in ’63,’ said the resome old prophet can
bore the piss out of you in any space-time direction.…
‘Now I happen to remember because it was just two years before that a
strain of human a osa developed in a Bolivian lavatory got loose through the
medium of a Chinchilla coat ﬁxed an income tax case in Kansas City.… And a Liz
claimed Immaculate Concep on and give birth to a six-ounce spider monkey
through the navel.… They say the croaker was party to that caper had the
monkey on his back all the time.…’
I, William Seward, captain of this lushed up hashhead subway, will quell the
Loch Ness monster with rotenone and cowboy the white whale. I will reduce
Satan to Automa c Obedience, and sublimate subsidiary ﬁends. I will banish the
candiru from your swimming pools. – I will issue a bull on Immaculate Birth
Control.…
‘The o ener a thing happens the more uniquely wonderful it is,’ said the
pretentious young Nordic on the trapeze studying his Masonic home work.
‘The Jews don’t believe in Christ, Clem.… All they want to do is doodle a
Christian girl.…’
Adolescent angels sing on shithouse walls of the world.
‘Come and jack off …’
‘Gimpy push milk sugar shit …’ Johnny Hung Lately 1952.
(Decayed corseted tenor sings Danny Deever in drag.…)
Mules don’t foal in this decent county and on hooded dead gibber in the ash
pits.… Violation Public Health Law 334.
So where is the statuary and the percentage? Who can say? I don’t have The
Word.… Home in my douche bag … The King is loose with a flame thrower and the
king killer, tortured in eﬃgy of a thousand bums, slides down skid row to shit in
the limestone ball court.
Young Dillinger walked straight out of the house and never looked back.
‘Don’t ever look back, kid.… You turn into some old cow’s salt lick.’
Police bullet in the alley … Broken wings of Icarus, screams of a burning boyinhaled by the old junky … eyes empty as a vast plain … (vulture wings husk in the
dry air).
The Crab, aged Dean Of Lush Workers, puts on his crustacean suit to prowl
the graveyard shi … with steel claws pulls the gold teeth and crowns of any ﬂop
sleep with his mouth open.… If the ﬂop comes up on him The Crab rears back
claws snapping to offer dubious battle on the plains of Queens.
The Boy Burglar, fucked in the long jail term, ousted from the cemetery for
the non-payment, comes gibbering into the queer bar with a moldy pawn ticket to
pick up the black balls of Tent City where castrate salesmen sing the I B M song.
Crabs frolicked through his forest … wrestling with the angel hard-on all night,
thrown in the homo fall of valor, take a back road to the rusty limestone cave.
Black Yen ejaculates over the salt marshes where nothing grows not even a
mandrake.…
Law of averages … A few chickens … Only way to live.…
‘Hello, Cash.’
‘You sure it’s here?’
‘Of course I’m sure.… Go in with you.’
Night train to Chi … Meet a girl in the hall and I see she is on and ask where is
a score?
‘Come in sonny.’
I mean not a young chick but built …‘How about a fix first?’
‘Ixnay, You wouldn’t be inna condition.’
Three mes around … wake up shivering sick in warm Spring wind through the
window, water burns the eyes like acid.…
She gets out of bed naked.… Stash in the Cobra lamp.… Cooks up.…
‘Turn over.… I’ll give it to you in the ass.’
She slides the needle in deep, pulls it out and massages the cheek.…
She licks a drop of blood off her finger.
He rolls over with a hard-on dissolving in the grey ooze of junk.
In a vale of cocaine and innocence sad-eyed youths yodel for a lost Danny
Boy …
We sniﬀed all night and made it four mes … ﬁngers down the black board …
scrape the white bone. Home is the heroin home from the sea and the hustler
home from The Bill.…
The Pitchman s rs uneasily: ‘Take over here will you kid? Go a see a man
about a monkey.’
The Word is divided into units which be all in one piece and should be so
taken, but the pieces can be had in any order being ed up back and forth, in and
out fore and a like an innares ng sex arrangement. This book spill oﬀ the page
in all direc ons, kaleidoscope of vistas, medley of tunes and street noises, farts
and riot yipes and the slamming steel shu ers of commerce, screams of pain and
pathos and screams plain pathic, copula ng cats and outraged squawk of the
displaced bull head, prophe c mu erings of brujo in nutmeg trances, snappingnecks and screaming mandrakes, sigh of orgasm, heroin silent as dawn in the
thirsty cells, Radio Cairo screaming like a berserk tobacco auc on, and ﬂutes of
Ramadan fanning the sick junky like a gentle lush worker in the grey subway dawn
feeling with delicate fingers for the green folding crackle.…
This is Revela on and Prophecy of what I can pick up without FM on my 1920
crystal set with antennae of jissom.… Gentle reader, we see God through our
assholes in the ﬂash bulb of orgasm.… Through these oriﬁces transmute your
body.… The way OUT is the way IN.…
Now I, William Seward, will unlock my word horde.… My Viking heart fares
over the great brown river where motors put put put in jungle twilight and whole
trees ﬂoat with huge snakes in the branches and sad-eyed lemurs watch the
shore, across the Missouri ﬁeld (The Boy ﬁnds a pink arrowhead) out along
distant train whistles, comes back to me hungry as a street boy don’t know to
peddle the ass God gave him.… Gentle Reader, The Word will leap on you with
leopard man iron claws, it will cut oﬀ ﬁngers and toes like an opportunist land
crab, it will hang you and catch your jissom like a scrutable dog, it will coil round
your thighs like a bushmaster and inject a shot glass of rancid ectoplasm.… And
why a scrutable dog?
The other day I am returning from the long lunch thread from mouth to ass all
the way the days of our years, when I see an Arab boy have this li le black and
white dog know how to walk on his hind legs.… And a big yaller dog come on the
boy for aﬀec on and the boy shove it away, and the yaller dog growl and snap at
the li le toddler, snarling if he had but human gi of tongues: ‘A crime against
nature right there.’
So I dub the yaller dog Scrutable.… And let me say in passing, and I am always
passing like a sincere Spade, that the Inscrutable East need a heap of salt to get it
down.… Your Reporter bang thirty grains of M a day and sit eight hours
inscrutable as a turd.
‘What are you thinking?’ says the squirming American Tourist.…
To which I reply: ‘Morphone have depressed my hypothalamus, seat of libido
and emo on, and since the front brain acts only at second hand with back-brain
lla on, being a vicarious type ci zen can only get his kicks from behind, I must
report virtual absence of cerebral event. I am aware of your presence, but since it
has for me no aﬀec ve connota on, my aﬀect having been disconnect by the
junk man for the non-payment, I am not innarested in your doings.… Go or come,
shit or fuck yourself with a rasp or an asp – s well done and ﬁ ng for a queen –
but The Dead and The Junky don’t care.…’ They are Inscrutable.
‘Which is the way down the aisle to the water closet?’ I asked the blonde
usherette.
‘Right through here, sir.… Room for one more inside.’
‘Have you seen Pantopon Rose?’ said the old junky in the black overcoat.
The Texas sheriﬀ has killed his complicit Vet, Browbeck The Unsteady,
involved in horse heroin racket.… A horse down with the a osa need a sight ofheroin to ease his pain and maybe some of that heroin take oﬀ across the
lonesome prairie and whinny in Washington Square.… Junkies rush up yelling
‘Heigh oOO Silver.’
‘But where is the statuary?’ This arch type bit of pathos screeched out in the
tea-room cocktail lounge with bamboo decora ons, Calle Juarez, Mexico, DF.…
Lost back there with a meatball rape rap … a cunt claw your pants down and you
up for rape that’s statutory, brother.…
Chicago calling … come in please … Chicago calling … come in please … What
you think I got the rubber on for goulashes in Puyo? A mighty wet place, reader.…
‘Take it off ! Take it off !’
The old queen meets himself coming round the other way in burlesque of
adolescence, gets the knee from his phantom of the Old Old Howard … down skid
row to Market Street Museum shows all kinds masturba on and self-abuse …
young boys need it special.…
They was ripe for the plucking forgot way back yonder in the corn hole … lost
in little scraps of delight and burning scrolls.…
Read the metastasis with blind fingers.
Fossil message of arthritis …
‘Selling is more of a habit than using.’ – Lola La Chata, Mexico, DF.
Sucking terror from needle scars, underwater scream mouthing numb nerve
warnings of the yen to come, throbbing bite site of rabies …
‘If God made anything be er he kept it for himself,’ the Sailor used to say, his
transmission slowed down with twenty goof balls.
(Pieces of murder fall slow as opal chips through glycerine.)
Watching you and humming over and over, ‘Johnny’s So Long At The Fair.’
Pushing in a small way to keep up our habit.…
‘And use that alcohol,’ I say slamming a spirit lamp down on the table.
‘You fucking can’t – wait – hungry junkies all the me black up my spoons with
matches.… That’s all I need for pen Indef. the heat rumbles a black spoon in the
trap.…
‘I thought you was quitting.… Wouldn’t feel right fucking up your cure.
‘Takes a lot of guts to kick a habit, kid.’
Looking for veins in the thawing ﬂesh. Hour-Glass of junk spills its last black
grains into the kidneys.…
‘Heavily infected area,’ he muttered, shifting the tie up.
‘Death was their Culture Hero,’ said my Old Lady looking up from the Mayan
Codices.…‘They got ﬁre and speech and the corn seed from death.… Death turns
into a maize seed.’
The Ouab Days are upon us
raw pealed winds of hate and mischance
blew the shot.
‘Get those fucking dirty pictures out of here,’ I told her. The Old Timer
Schmecker supported himself on a chair back, juiced and goof-balled … a disgraceto his blood.
‘What are you one of these goof-ball artists?’
Yellow smells of skid row sherry and occluding liver dri ed out of his clothes
when he made the junky gesture throwing the hand out palm up to cope …
smell of chili houses and dank overcoats and atrophied
testicles.…
He looked at me through the tenta ve, ectoplasmic ﬂesh of cure … thirty
pounds materialized in a month when you kick … so pink pu y that fades at the
ﬁrst silent touch of junk.… I saw it happen … ten pounds lost in ten minutes …
standing there with the syringe in one hand … holding his pants up with the other.
sharp reek of diseased metal.
Walking in a rubbish heap to the sky … sca ered gasoline ﬁres … smoke hangs
black and solid as excrement in the mo onless air … smudging the white ﬁlm of
noon heat … D.L. walks beside me … a reﬂec on of my toothless gums and
hairless skull … ﬂesh smeared over the ro ng phosphorescent bones consumed
by slow cold ﬁres.… He carries an open can of gasoline and the smell of gasoline
envelopes him.… Coming over a hill of rusty iron we meet a group of na ves …
flat two-dimension faces of scavenger fish.…
‘Throw the gasoline on them and light it.…
QUICK …
white flash … mangled insect screams …
I woke up with the taste of metal in my mouth back from the dead
trailing the colorless death smell
afterbirth of a withered grey monkey
phantom twinges of amputation …
‘Taxi boys wai ng for a pickup,’ Eduardo said and died of an overdose in
Madrid.…
Powder trains burn back through pink convolu ons of tumescent ﬂesh …
set oﬀ ﬂash bulbs of orgasm … pinpoint photos of arrested mo on …
smooth brown side twisted to light a cigarette.…
He stood there in a 1920 straw hat somebody gave him … so mendicant
words falling like dead birds in the dark street.…
‘No … No more … No mas …’
A heaving sea of air hammers in the purple brown dusk tainted with ro en
metal smell of sewer gas … young worker faces vibra ng out of focus in yellow
halos of carbide lanterns … broken pipes exposed.…
‘They are rebuilding the City.’
Lee nodded absently.…‘Yes … Always …’
Either way is a bad move to The East Wing.…
If I knew I’d be glad to tell you.…
‘No good … no bueno … hustling himself.…’‘No glot … C’lom Fliday’
Tangier, 1959.
